 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
지문당 제한시간을 18 분을 엄수해주세요. 
(목표점수가 높을수록 18 분, 아닐수록 20 분) 
본 문제는 반드시 지면이 아닌, 컴퓨터 화면으로 풀어야 합니다. 
지문당 최대 2 장의 A4 용지를 사용하실 수 있습니다. 
지문은 총 5 개입니다.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Colonizing the Americas via the Northwest Coast 
 
 
 
It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of peoples 
from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait between 
northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age. The first water craft theory about the 
migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching from 
eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers. It was the 
midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets-the Laurentide to the west-that enabled 
the southward migration. But belief in this ice -free corridor began to crumble when 
paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates 
used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect. He persuasively argued that 
such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final 
retreat.  
 
Support is growing for the alternative theory that peopl e using watercraft, possibly skin 
boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along the 
Northwest Coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago. This route would have 
enabled humans to enter southern areas of the Americans prior to the melting of the continental 
glaciers. Until the early 1970s, most archaeologists did not consider the coast a possible 
migration route into the Americans because geologists originally believed that during the last Ice 
Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice. It had been assumed that the ice 
extended westward from the Alaskan/Canadian mountains to the very edge of the continental 
shelf, the flat, submerged part of the continent that extend into the ocean. This would have created 
a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska and southward 
along the Northwest Coast of North America to what is today the state of Washington.  

 
2 
 
 
The most influential proponent of the coastal migratio n route has been Canadian 
archaeologist Knut Fladmark. He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually 
colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the lower sea 
level. Fladmark's hypothesis received additional support from the fact that the greatest diversity 
in Native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americans, suggesting that this 
region has been settled the longest.  
 
More recent geologic studies documented deglaciation and the existence of ice-free areas 
throughout major coastal areas of British Columbia, Canada, by 13,000 years ago. Research now 
indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner conti nental shelf were not 
covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age. One study suggests that except for a 250-mile 
coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the Northwest Coast 
of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago. Vast areas along 
the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, possibly providing a 
coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime between 13,000 and 
14,000 years ago.  
 
The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the remains 
of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern Alaska 
dating between 10,000 and 12,500 years ago. This is the time period in whi ch most scientists 
formerly believed the area to be inhospitable for humans. It has been suggested that if the 
environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would have been 
enough food resources to support humans. Fladmark and  others believe that the first human 
colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice 
Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago. The most recent geologic evidence indicates that it 
may have been possible for peop le to colonize ice -free regions along the continental shelf that 
were still exposed by the lower sea level between 13,000 and 14,000 ago.  
 
The coastal hypothesis suggests an economy based on marine mammal hunting, saltwater 
fishing gathering, and the use of watercraft. Because of the barrier of ice to the east, the Pacific 
Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater impetus for 
people to move in a southerly direction.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Paragraph 1: It has long been accepted that  the Americas were colonized by a migration of 
peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait 
between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age. The first water craft theory about 
the migration was that around 11,000-12,000 years ago there was an ice-free corridor stretching 
from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers. It was 
the midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets -the Laurentide to t he west -that 
enabled the southward migration. But belief in this ice -free corridor began to crumble when 
paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon dates 
used to support the existence of an ice-free corridor were incorrect. He persuasively argued that 
such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began its final 
retreat.  
 
1. According to paragraph 1, the theory that people first migrated to the Americans 
by way of an ice-free corridor was seriously called into question by  
○ paleoecologist Glen MacDonald's argument that the original migration occurred much later 
than had previously been believed 
○ the demonstration that certain previously accepted radiocarbon dates were incorrect 
○ evidence that the continental ice began its final retreat much later than had previously been 
believed 
○ research showing that the ice-free corridor was not as long lasting as had been widely assumed 
 
2. The word persuasively in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○ aggressively 
○ inflexibly 
○ convincingly 
○ carefully 
 
Paragraph 2: Support is growing for the alternative theory that people using watercraft, possibly 
skin boats, moved southward from Beringia along the Gulf of Alaska and then southward along 
the Northwest Coast of North America possibly as early as 16,000 years ago. T his route would 
have enabled humans to enter southern areas of the Americans prior to  the melting of the 
continental glaciers. Until the early 1970s, most archaeologists did not consider the coast a 
possible migration route into the Americans because geolo gists originally believed that during 
the last Ice Age the entire Northwest Coast was covered by glacial ice. It had been assumed that 
the ice extended westward from the Alaskan/Canadian mountains to the very edge of the 
continental shelf, the flat, submerged part of the continent that extend into the ocean. This would 
have created a barrier of ice extending from the Alaska Peninsula, through the Gulf of Alaska 
and southward along the Northwest Coast of North America to what is today the state of 
Washington. 
 
4 
 
3. Paragraph 2 begins by presenting a theory and then goes on to  
○ discuss why the theory was rapidly accepted but then rejected 
○ present the evidence on which the theory was based 
○ cite evidence that now shows that the theory is incorrect 
○ explain why the theory was not initially considered plausible 
 
 
4. The phrase prior to is closest in meaning to  
○ before 
○ immediately after 
○ during 
○ in spite of  
 
 
5. Paragraph 2 supports the idea that, before the 1970s, the most archaeologists held 
which of the following views about the earliest people to reach the Americas? 
○ They could not have sailed directly from Beringia to Alaska and then southward because, it 
was thought, glacial ice covered the entire coastal region. 
○ They were not aware that the climate would continue to become milder 
○ They would have had no interest in migrating southward from Beringia until after the 
continental glaciers had begun to melt 
○ They lacked the navigational skills and appropriate boats needed long-distance trips. 
 
 
Paragraph 3: The most influential proponent of the coastal migration route has been Canadian 
archaeologist Knut Fladmark. He theorized that with the use of watercraft, people gradually 
colonized unglaciated refuges and areas along the continental shelf exposed by the  lower sea 
level. Fladmark's hypothesis received additional support from the fact that the greatest diversity 
in Native American languages occurs along the west coast of the Americans, suggesting that this 
region has been settled the longest.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways to leave out essential information.  
○ Because this region has been settled the longest, it also displays the greatest diversity in Native 
American languages. 
○ Fladmark's hypothesis states that the west coast of the Americas has been settled longer than 
any other region. 
○ The fact that the greatest diversity of Native American languages  occurs along the west coast 
of the Americans lends strength to Fradmark's hypothesis 
○ According to Fladmark, Native American languages have survived the longest along the west 
coast of the Americas.  
 
Paragraph 4: More recent geologic studies documented deglaciation and the existence of ice -
free areas throughout major coastal areas of British Columbia, Canada, by 13,000 years ago. 
Research now indicates that sizable areas of southeastern Alaska along the inner continental shelf 
were not covered by ice toward the end of the last Ice Age. One study suggests that except for a 
250-mile coastal area between southwestern British Columbia and Washington State, the 
Northwest Coast of North America was largely free of ice by approximately 16,000 years ago. 
Vast areas along the coast may have been deglaciated beginning around 16,000 years ago, 
possibly providing a coastal corridor for the movement of plants, animals, and humans sometime 
between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago.  
 
7. The author's purpose in paragraph 4 is to  
○ indicate that a number of recent geologic studies seem to provide support for the coastal 
hypothesis 
○ indicate that coastal and inland migrations may have happened simultaneously 
○ explain why humans may have reached America's northwest coast before animals and plants 
did 
○ show that the coastal hypothesis may explain how people first reached Alaska but it cannot 
explain how people reached areas like modern British Columbia and Washington State 
 
8. The word Vast in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○ Frozen  
○ Various  
○ Isolated 
○ Huge 
 
 
6 
 
Paragraph 5: The coastal hypothesis has gained increasing support in recent years because the 
remains of large land animals, such as caribou and brown bears, have been found in southeastern 
Alaska dating bet ween 10,000 and 12,500 years ago. This is the time period in which most 
scientists formerly believed the area to be inhospitable for humans. It has been suggested that if 
the environment were capable of supporting breeding populations of bears, there would  have 
been enough food resources to support humans. Fladmark and others believe that the first human 
colonization of America occurred by boat along the Northwest Coast during the very late Ice 
Age, possibly as early as 14,000 years ago.  
 
9. According to p aragraph 5, the discovery of the remains of large land animals 
supports the coastal hypothesis by providing evidence that  
○ humans were changing their hunting techniques to adapt to coastal rather than inland 
environments 
○ animals had migrated from the inland to the coasts, an indication that a midcontinental ice-free 
corridor was actually implausible 
○ humans probably would have been able to find enough resources along the coastal corridor 
○ the continental shelf was still exposed by lower sea levels during the period when the 
southward migration of people began 
 
10. The word inhospitable in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○ not familiar 
○ not suitable 
○ not dangerous 
○ not reachable 
 
11. According to paragraph 5, the most recent geologic research provides support 
for a first colonization of America dating as far back as  
○ 16,000 years ago 
○ 14,000 years ago  
○ 12,500 years ago  
○ 10,000 years ago 
 
Paragraph 6: The coastal hypothesis s uggests an economy based on marine mammal hunting, 
saltwater fishing gathering, and the use of watercraft. Because of the barrier of ice to the east, 
the Pacific Ocean to the west, and populated areas to the north, there may have been a greater 
impetus for people to move in a southerly direction.  
 
 
7 
 
12. The word impetus in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○ chance 
○ protection 
○ possibility 
○ incentive 
 
Paragraph 1: It has long been accepted that the Americas were colonized by a migration of 
peoples from Asia, slowly traveling across a land bridge called Beringia (now the Bering Strait 
between northeastern Asia and Alaska) during the last Ice Age. ■  The first water craft theory 
about the migration was that around 11,000 -12,000 years ago there was an ice -free corridor 
stretching from eastern Beringia to the areas of North America south of the great northern glaciers. 
It was the midcontinental corridor between two massive ice sheets -the Laurentide to the west -
that enabled the southward migration.  ■ But belief in this ice -free corridor began to crumble 
when paleoecologist Glen MacDonald demonstrated that some of the most important radiocarbon 
dates used to support the existence of an ice -free corridor were incorrect. ■  He persuasively 
argued that such an ice-free corridor did not exist until much later, when the continental ice began 
its final retreat. ■ 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be 
added to the passage. 
 
Moreover, other evidence suggests that even if an ice-free corridor did exist, it would have 
lacked the resources needed for human colonization. 
 
Where could the sentence best fit? 
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not 
belong in the summary  because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.   
 
Recent evidence favors a rival to the long-standing theory that the Americas were colonized 
11,000-12,000 years ago by people migrating south from Beringia along a midcontinental 
ice-free corridor 
● 
 
8 
 
● 
● 
<Answer Choices> 
○ Evidence that an ice-free corridor between two ice sheets developed when the continental ice 
first began to melt came primarily from radiocarbon dating. 
○ There is growing support for the theory that migration took place much earlier, by sea, 
following a coastal route along Alaska and down the northwest coast. 
○ Recent geologic evidence indicates that contrary to what had been believed,  substantial areas 
along the coast were free of ice as early as 16,000 years ago. 
○ Research now indicates that the parts of the inner continental that remained covered with ice 
were colonized by a variety of early human groups well adapted to living in ex tremely cold 
environments. 
○ There is evidence suggesting that areas along the coast may have contained enough food 
resources between 13,000 and 14,000 years ago to have made human colonization possible.  
○ Even though the northern part of the continent all owed for a more varied economy, several 
early human groups quickly moved south. 
 
 
9 
 
Deer Populations of the Puget Sound 
 
Two species of deer have been prevalent in the Puget Sound area of Washington State in 
the Pacific Northwest of the United States. The bl ack-tailed deer, lowland, west -side cousin of 
the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common. The other species, the Columbian 
white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country, it is now restricted to 
the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River.  
   
Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet. Where the 
forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black -tailed deer browses on 
huckleberry, salal, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb. But this is fair-weather feeding. 
What keeps the black-tailed deer alive in the harsher seasons of plant decay and dormancy? One 
compensation for not hibernating is the built -in urge to migrate. Deer may move from high -
elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall. Even with snow on the 
ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of 
cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder.  
   
The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since th e entry of Europeans into Puget 
Sound country. The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet 
almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal. Famous explorers 
of the north American frontier, Lew is and Clark had experienced great difficulty finding game 
west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk. To keep 40 
people alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer. And when game 
moved out of the lowlands in early spring, the expedition decided to return east rather than face 
possible starvation. Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver 
became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate. 
David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s found a disturbing change in the animal 
life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the 
fort in 1832. A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the 
meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the 
crops."  
   
Reduction in numbers of game should have boded ill for their survival in later times. A 
worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, logging, 
burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, towns, and 
factories. No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further. Recall the fate of the Columbian 
white-tailed deer, now in a protected status. But for the black -tailed deer, human pressure has 
 
10 
 
had just the opposite effect. Wild life zoologist Hulmut Buechner(1953), in reviewing the nature 
of biotic changes in Washingto n through recorded time, Says that "since the early 1940s, the 
state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population fluctuating 
around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black-tailed deer), which will yield about 65,000 
of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period."  
   
The causes of this population rebound are consequences of other human actions. First, the 
major predators of deer ---wolves, cougar, and lynx --have been greatly reduced in numbers. 
Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting. But the most 
profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the gate of the forests. 
Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have be come ideal feeding 
grounds of deer. In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckleberry and vine 
maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality of 
browse in the open areas to be substantially mor e nutritive. The protein content of shade-grown 
vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
Paragraph 1: Two species of deer have been prevalent in the Puget Sound area of Washington 
state in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. The black -tailed deer, a lowland, west -side 
cousin of the mule deer of eastern Washington, is now the most common. The other species, the 
Columbian white-tailed deer, in earlier times was common in the open prairie country, it is now 
restricted to the low, marshy islands and flood plains along the lower Columbia River.  
 
1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of the white-tailed deer 
of Puget Sound?  
o It is native to lowlands and marshes.  
o It is more closely related to the mule deer of eastern Washington than to other types of deer.  
o It has replaced the black-tailed deer in the open prairie.  
o It no longer lives in a particular type of habitat that it once occupied.  
 
Paragraph 2: Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet. Where 
the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black-tailed deer browses on 
huckleberry, salad, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb. But this is fair-weather feeding. 
What keeps the black-tailed deer alive in the harsher seasons of plant decay and dormancy? One 
compensation for not hibernating is the built -in urge to migrate. Deer may move from high -
elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall. Even with snow on the 
ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind bring down leafy branches of 
cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder.  
 
2.  It can be inferred from the discussion in paragraph 2 that winter conditions  
o Cause some deer to hibernate  
o Make food unavailable in the highlands for deer  
o Make it easier for deer to locate understory plants  
o Prevent deer from migrating during the winter  
 
3. The word inhibits in the passage is closest in meaning to  
 o Consists of  
 o Combines  
 o Restricts  
 o Establishes  
  
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Paragraph 3：The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since the entry of Europeans into 
Puget Sound country. The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s 
and yet almost in the same breath  bemoaned the lack of this succulent game animal.  Famous 
explorers of the North American frontier, Lewis and Clark had experienced great difficulty 
finding game west of the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first 
elk. To keep 40 people alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer. And 
when game moved out of the lowlands in early spring, the expedition decided to return east rather 
than face possible starvation. Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort 
Vancouver became the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued 
to fluctuate. David Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s, found a disturbing change 
in the animal life around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his fina l 
contact with the fort in 1832. A recent Douglas biographer states:  "The deer which once 
picturesquely dotted the meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination 
in order to protect the crops."  
  
4. The phrase in the same breath in the passage is closest in meaning to  
 o impatiently  
 o humorously  
 o continuously  
 o immediately  
  
5. The author tells the story of the explorers Lewis and Clark in paragraph 3 in order 
to illustrate which of the following points?  
o the number of deer within the Puget sound region has varied over time.  
o Most of the explorers who came to the Puget sou nd area were primarily intereste d in hunting 
game. 
o There was more game for hunting in the East of the United States than in the West.  
o Individual explorers were not as successful at locating games as were the trading companies.  
 
6. According to paragraph 3, how had Fort Vancouver changed by the time David 
Douglas returned in 1832?  
o The fort had become the headquarters for the Hudson's Bay Company.  
o Deer had begun populating the meadows around the fort.  
o Deer populations near the fort had been destroyed.  
o Crop yields in the area around the fort had decreased.  
 
 
13 
 
Paragraph 4：Reduction in numbers of game should have boded ill for their survival in later 
times. A worsening of the plight of deer was to be expected as settlers encroached on the land, 
logging, burning, and clearing, eventually replacing a wilderness landscape with roads, cities, 
towns, and factories. No doubt the numbers of deer declined still further. Recall the fate of the 
Columbian white -tailed deer, now in a protected status. But for  the black-tailed deer, human 
pressure has had just the opposite effect. Wild life zoologist Hulmut Buechner(1953), in 
reviewing the nature of biotic changes in Washington through recorded time, says that "since the 
early 1940s, the state has had more deer than at any other time in its history, the winter population 
fluctuating around approximately 320,000 deer (mule and black -tailed deer), which will yield 
about 65,000 of either sex and any age annually for an indefinite period." 
 
7. Why does the author ask readers to recall the fate of the Columbian white-tailed 
deer in the discussion of changes in the wilderness landscape?  
o To provide support for the idea that habitat destruction would lead to population decline  
o To compare how two species of deer caused biotic changes in the wilderness environment  
o To provide an example of a species of deer that has successfully adapted to human settlement  
o To argue that some deer species must be given a protected status  
 
8. The phrase indefinite period in the passage is closest in meaning to period  
 o Whose end has not been determined  
 o That does not begin when expected  
 o That lasts only briefly  
 o Whose importance remains unknown  
  
9. Which of the following statements about deer populations is supported by the 
information in paragraph 4?  
o Deer populations reached their highest point during the 1940s and then began to decline.  
o The activities of settlers contributed in unexpected ways to the growth of some deer populations 
in later times.  
o The cleaning of wilderness land for construction caused biotic changes from which the bl ack-
tailed deer population has never recovered.  
o Since the 1940s the winter populations of deer have fluctuated more than the summer 
populations have.  
 
 
 
 
14 
 
Paragraph 5：The causes of this population rebound are consequences of other human actions. 
First, the major predators of deer ---wolves, cougar, and lynx --have been greatly reduced in 
numbers. Second, conservation has been insured by limiting times for and types of hunting. But 
the most profound reason for the restoration of high population numbers has been the gate of the 
forests. Great tracts of lowland country deforested by logging, fire, or both have become ideal 
feeding grounds of deer. In addition to finding an increase of suitable browse, like huckl eberry 
and vine maple, Arthur Einarsen, longtime game biologist in the Pacific Northwest, found quality 
of browse in the open areas to be substantially more nutritive. The protein content of shade -
grown vegetation, for example, was much lower than that for plants grown in clearings.  
 
10. The word rebound in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o decline  
o recovery  
o exchange  
o movement  
  
11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passag e? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information.  
o Arthur Einarsen’s longtime family with the Pacific Northwest helped him discover areas where 
deer had an increase in suitable browse.  
o Arthur Einarsen found that deforested feeding grounds provided deer with more and better food.  
o Biologist like Einarsen believe it is important to find additional open areas with suitable browse 
for deer to inhabit.  
o According to Einarsen, huckleberry and vine maple are examples of vegetation that may 
someday improve the nutrition of deer in the open areas of the Pacific Northwest.  
 
12. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 5 as a factor that has 
increased deer populations?  
o A reduction in the number of predators  
o Restrictions on hunting  
o The effects of logging and fire  
o Laws that protected feeding grounds of deer  
 
 
 
 
15 
 
Paragraph 2—3: Nearly any kind of plant of the forest understory can be part of a deer's diet. 
Where the forest inhibits the growth of grass and other meadow plants, the black -tailed deer 
browses on huckleb erry, salad, dogwood, and almost any other shrub or herb. But this is fair -
weather feeding. What keeps the black -tailed deer a lived in the harsher seasons of plant decay 
and dormancy? One compensation for not hibernating is the built - in urge to migrate.  ■ Deer 
may move from high -elevation browse areas in summer down to the lowland areas in late fall. 
■ Even with snow on the ground, the high bushy understory is exposed; also snow and wind 
bring down leafy branches of cedar, hemlock, red alder, and other arboreal fodder.  
 
■ The numbers of deer have fluctuated markedly since the entry of Europeans into Puget Sound 
country. ■ The early explorers and settlers told of abundant deer in the early 1800s and yet 
almost in the same breath bemoaned the lack of this s ucculent game animal. Famous explorers 
of the north American frontier, Lewis and had experienced great difficulty finding game west of 
the Rockies and not until the second of December did they kill their first elk. To keep 40 people 
alive that winter, they consumed approximately 150 elk and 20 deer. And when game moved out 
of the lowlands in early spring, the expedition decided to return east rather than face possible 
starvation. Later on in the early years of the nineteenth century, when Fort Vancouver bec ame 
the headquarters of the Hudson's Bay Company, deer populations continued to fluctuate. David 
Douglas, Scottish botanical explorer of the 1830s. Found a disturbing change in the animal life 
around the fort during the period between his first visit in 1825 and his final contact with the fort 
in 1832. A recent Douglas biographer states:" The deer which once picturesquely dotted the 
meadows around the fort were gone [in 1832], hunted to extermination in order to protect the 
crops." 
 
13．Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage.  
 
There food is available and accessible throughout the winter.  
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that 
express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in 
the summary because they exp ress ideas that not presented in the passage or are 
minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.  
 
16 
 
 
Deer in the Puget Sound area eat a wide variety of foods and migrate seasonally to find food.  
●  
●  
●  
<Answer Choices> 
o The balance of deer species in the Puget Sound region has changed over time, with the 
Columbian white-tailed deer now outnumbering other types of deer.  
o Deer populations naturally fluctuate, but early settlers in the Puget Sound environment caused 
an overall decline in the deer populations of the areas at that time.  
o In the long term, black -tailed deer in the Puget Sound area have benefitted from human 
activities through the elimination of their natural predators, and more and better food in 
deforested areas.  
o Because Puget Sound deer migrate, it was and still remains difficult to determine accurately 
how many deers are living at any one time the western United States.  
o Although it was believed that human settlement of American West would cause the tota l 
number of deer to decrease permanently, the opposite has occurred for certain types of deer.  
o Wildlife biologists have long been concerned that the loss of forests may create nutritional 
deficiencies for deer.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
 
Depletion of the Ogallala Aquifer 
 
The vast grasslands of the High Plains in the central United States were settled by farmers 
and ranchers in the 1880’s. This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after its settlement, 
it supported a low -intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat farming. In the 
early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains was underlain 
by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater). This aquifer was 
named the Ogallala aquifer after the Ogallala Sioux Indians, who once inhabited the region. 
 
The Ogallala aquifer is a sandstone formation that underlies some 583,000 square kilometers 
of land extending from northwestern Texas to southern South Dakota. Wate r from rains and 
melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years. Estimates indicate 
that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, under the semiarid 
climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the aquifer are minimal, 
amounting to about half a centimeter a year. 
 
The first wells were drilled into the Ogallala during the drought years of the early 1930’s. 
The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, espe cially from the 1950’s onward, 
transformed the economy of the region. More than 100,000 wells now tap the Ogallala. Modern 
irrigation devices, each capable of spraying 4.5 million liters of water a day, have produced a 
landscape dominated by geometric patterns of circular green islands of crops. Ogallala water has 
enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and 
corn grown in the United States. In addition, 40 percent of American grain -fed beef cattle are 
fattened here. 
 
This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost negligible 
natural recharge rate—that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water supply —
has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically. In the 1930’s, wells encountered plentiful 
water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 meters or 
more. In places, the water table is declining at a rate of a meter a year, necessitating the periodic 
deepening of we lls and the use of ever -more-powerful pumps. It is estimated that at current 
withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years. The situation is most critical 
in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pum ped, and the 
aquifer contains the least water. It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the year 
2030, support only 35 to 40 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 1980. 
 
 
18 
 
The reaction of farmers to the inevitable d epletion of the Ogallala varies. Many have been 
attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to crops that require 
less water. Other, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water while it 
is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high -value crops such as cotton. 
The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge that 
many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the  process are 
drawing down the entire region’s water supplies. 
 
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been 
developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the 
Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these 
schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural 
products from the region uncompetitive on the national and internationa l markets. Somewhat 
more promising have been recent experiments for releasing capillary water (water in the soil) 
above the water table by injecting compressed air into the ground. Even if this process proves 
successful, however, it would almost triple water costs. Genetic engineering also may provide a 
partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed. Whatever the 
final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water 
will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years 
of the mid-twentieth century. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
Paragraph 1：The vast grasslands of the High Plains in the central United States were settled 
by farmers and ranchers in the 1880’s. This region has a semiarid climate, and for 50 years after 
its settlement, it supported a low -intensity agricultural economy of cattle ranching and wheat 
farming. In the early twentieth century, however, it was discovered that much of the High Plains 
was underlain by a huge aquifer (a rock layer containing large quantities of groundwater). This 
aquifer was named the Ogallala aquifer after the Ogallala Sioux Indians, who once inhabited the 
region. 
 
 
1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following statements about the High 
Plains is true? 
o Until farmers and ranchers settled there in the 1880’s, the High Plains had never been inhabited. 
o The climate of the High Plains is characterized by higher-than-average temperatures. 
o The large aquif er that lies underneath the High Plains was discovered by the Ogallala Sioux 
Indians. 
o Before the early 1900’s there was only a small amount of farming and ranching in the High 
Plains. 
 
 
Paragraph 2：The Ogallala aquifer is a sandstone formation that underlies some 583,000 square 
kilometers of land extending from northwestern Texas to southern South Dakota. Water from 
rains and melting snows has been accumulating in the Ogallala for the past 30,000 years. 
Estimates indicate that the aquifer contains enough water to fill Lake Huron, but unfortunately, 
under the semiarid climatic conditions that presently exist in the region, rates of addition to the 
aquifer are minimal, amounting to about half a centimeter a year. 
 
 
2. According to paragraph 2, all of the following statements about the Ogallala 
aquifer are true EXCEPT: 
o The aquifer stretches from South Dakota to Texas. 
o The aquifer’s water comes from underground springs. 
o Water has been gathering in the aquifer for 30,000 years. 
o The aquifer’s water is stored in a layer of sandstone. 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
o Despite the current impressive size of the Ogallala aquifer, the region’s climate keeps the rates 
of water addition very small. 
o Although the aquifer has been adding water at the rate of only half a centimeter a year, it will 
eventually accumulate enough water of fill Lake Huron. 
o Because of the region’s present climatic conditions, water is being added each year to the 
aquifer.  
o Even when the region experiences unfortunate climatic conditions, the rates of addition of 
water continue to increase. 
 
Paragraph 3: The first wells were drilled into the Ogallala during the drought years of the early 
1930’s. The ensuing rapid expansion of irrigation agriculture, especially from the 1950’s onward, 
transformed the economy of the region. More than 100,000 wells now tap the Ogallala. Modern 
irrigation devices, each capable of spraying 4.5 million liters of water a day, have produced a 
landscape dominated by geometric patterns of circular green islands of crops. Ogallala water has 
enabled the High Plains region to supply significant amounts of the cotton, sorghum, wheat, and 
corn grown in the United States. In addition, 40 percent of American grain -fed beef cattle are 
fattened here. 
 
4. The word ensuing in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o continuing  
o surprising  
o initial  
o subsequent  
 
5. In paragraph 3, why does the author provide the information that 40 percent of 
American cattle are fattened in the High Plains? 
o To suggest that crop cultivation is not the most important part of the economy of the High 
Plains 
o To indicate that not all economic activity in the High Plains is dependent on irrigation 
o To provide another example of how water from the Ogallala has transformed the economy of 
the High Plains 
o To contrast cattle-fattening practices in the High Plains with those used in other region of the 
United States 
 
21 
 
Paragraph 4：This unprecedented development of a finite groundwater resource with an almost 
negligible natural recharge rate—that is, virtually no natural water source to replenish the water 
supply—has caused water tables in the region to fall drastically. In the 1930’s, wells encountered 
plentiful water at a depth of about 15 meters; currently, they must be dug to depths of 45 to 60 
meters or more. In places, the water table is declining at a rate of a meter a year, necessitating 
the periodic deepening of wells and the use of ever-more-powerful pumps. It is estimated that at 
current withdrawal rates, much of the aquifer will run dry within 40 years. The situation is most 
critical in Texas, where the climate is driest, the greatest amount of water is being pumped, and 
the aquifer contains the least water. It is projected that the remaining Ogallala water will, by the 
year 2030, support only 35 to 4 0 percent of the irrigated acreage in Texas that is supported in 
1980. 
 
6. The word unprecedented in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o difficult to control  
o without any restriction  
o unlike anything in the past  
o rapidly expanding  
 
7. The word virtually in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o clearly  
o perhaps  
o frequently  
o almost  
  
8. According to paragraph 4, all of following are consequences of the heavy use of 
the Ogallala aquifer for irrigation EXCEPT: 
o The recharge rate of the aquifer is decreasing. 
o Water tables in the region are becoming increasingly lower. 
o Wells now have to be dug to much greater depths than before. 
o Increasingly powerful pumps are needed to draw water from the aquifer. 
  
9. According to paragraph 4, compared with all other states that use Ogallala water 
for irrigation, Texas  
o Has the greatest amount of farmland being irrigated with Ogallala water 
o Contains the largest amount of Ogallala water underneath the soil 
o Is expected to face the worst water supply crisis as the Ogallala runs dry 
o Uses the least amount of Ogallala water for its irrigation needs 
 
22 
 
Paragraph 5：The reaction of farmers to the inevitable depletion of the Ogallala varies. Many 
have been attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to crops that 
require less water. Others, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use the water 
while it is still e conomically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high -value crops such as 
cotton. The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their knowledge 
that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the process are 
drawing down the entire region’s water supplies. 
 
 
10. The word inevitable in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o unfortunate  
o predictable  
o unavoidable  
o final  
  
11. Paragraph 5 mentions which of the following as a source of difficulty for some 
farmers who try to conserve water? 
o Crops that do not need much water are difficult to grow in the High Plains. 
o Farmers who grow crops that need a lot of water make higher profits. 
o Irrigating less frequently often leads to crop failure. 
o Few farmers are convinced that the aquifer will eventually run dry. 
 
Paragraph 6：In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes 
have been developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from t he 
Mississippi, the Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained 
through any of these schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of 
irrigated agricultural products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international 
markets. Somewhat more promising have been recent experiments for releasing capillary water 
(water in the soil) above the water table by injecting compressed air into the ground. Even if this 
process proves successful, however, it would almost triple water costs. Genetic engineering also 
may provide a partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed. 
Whatever the final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Pla ins, 
irrigation water will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the 
agricultural boom years of the mid-twentieth century. 
 
 
23 
 
12. According to paragraph 6, what is the main disadvantage of the proposed plans 
to transport river water to the High Plains? 
o The rivers cannot supply sufficient water for the farmer’s needs. 
o Increased irrigation costs would make the products too expensive. 
o The costs of using capillary water for irrigation will increase. 
o Farmers will be forced to switch to genetically engineered crops. 
 
Paragraph 5—6：The reaction of farmers to the inevitable depletion of the Ogallala varies. 
Many have been attempting to conserve water by irrigating less frequently or by switching to 
crops that require less water. ■ Other, however, have adopted the philosophy that it is best to use 
the water while it is still economically profitable to do so and to concentrate on high-value crops 
such as cotton. ■ The incentive of the farmers who wish to conserve water is reduced by their 
knowledge that many of their neighbors are profiting by using great amounts of water, and in the 
process are drawing down the entire region’s water supplies. ■ 
 
In the face of the upcoming water supply crisis, a number of grandiose schemes have been 
developed to transport vast quantities of water by canal or pipeline from the Mississippi, the 
Missouri, or the Arkansas rivers. ■ Unfortunately, the cost of water obtained through any of these 
schemes would increase pumping costs at least tenfold, making the cost of irrigated agricultural 
products from the region uncompetitive on the national and international markets. Somewhat 
more promising have been recent experiments for releasing capillary water (water in the soil) 
above the water table by injecting c ompressed are into the ground. Even if this process proves 
successful, however, it would almost triple water costs. Genetic engineering also may provide a 
partial solution, as new strains of drought-resistant crops continue to be developed. Whatever the 
final answer to the water crisis may be, it is evident that within the High Plains, irrigation water 
will never again be the abundant, inexpensive resource it was during the agricultural boom years 
of the mid-twentieth century. 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be 
added to the passage. 
 
But even if uncooperative farmers were to join in the conservation efforts, this would only 
delay the depletion of the aquifer. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage. 
 
 
24 
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong 
in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or 
are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
The Ogallala is a large underground source of water in the High Plains region of the United States. 
 
● 
● 
● 
 
<Answer choices> 
o The use of the Ogallala for irrigation has allowed the High Plains to become one of the most 
productive agricultural regions in the United States. 
o Given the aquifer’s low recharge rate, its use for irrigation is causing water tables to drop and 
will eventually lead to its depletion. 
o Releasing capillary water and introducing drought-resistant crops are less-promising solutions 
to the water supply crisis than bringing in river water 
o The periodic deepening of wells and the use of more-powerful pumps would help increase the 
natural recharge rate of the Ogallala. 
o In Texas, a great deal of attention is being paid to genetic engineering because it is there that 
the most critical situation exists. 
o Several solutions to the upcoming water supply crisis have bee n proposed, but none of them 
promises to keep the costs of irrigation low. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
Desert Formation 
The deserts, which already occupy approximately a fourth of the Earth's land surface, have 
in recent decades been increasing at an alarming pace. The expansion of desert-like conditions 
into areas where they did not previously exist is called desertification. It has been estimated 
that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this process. 
Desertification is accomplished primarily through the loss of stabilizing natural vegetation 
and the subsequent accelerated erosion of the soil by wind and water. In some cases the loose 
soil is blown completely away, leaving a stony surface. In other cases, the finer particles may 
be removed, while the sand-sized particles are accumulated to form mobile hills or ridges of 
sand. 
Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically results in the 
loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water. The impact of raindrops on the 
loose soil tends to transfer fine clay particles into the tiniest soil spaces, sealing them and 
producing a surface that allows very little water penetration. Water absorption is greatly 
reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates. The gradual 
drying of the soil caused by its diminished ability to absorb water results in the further loss of 
vegetation, so that a cycle of progressive surface deterioration is established. 
In some regions, the increase in desert areas is occurring largely as the result of a trend 
toward drier climatic conditions. Continued gradual global warming has produced an increase 
in aridity for some areas over the past few thousand years. The process may be accelerated in 
subsequent decades if global warming resulting from air pollution seriously increases. 
There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily from 
human activities rather than natural processes. The semiarid lands bordering the deserts exist in 
a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased 
environmental pressures. Expanding populations are subjecting the land to increasing pressures 
to provide them with food and fuel. In wet periods, the land may be able to respond to these 
stresses. During the dry periods that are common phenomena along the desert margins, though, 
the pressure on the land is often far in excess of its diminished capacity, and desertification 
results. 
Four specific activities have been identified as major contributors to the desertification 
processes: overcultivation, overgrazing, firewood gathering, and overirrigation. The cultivation 
of crops has expanded into progressively drier regions as population densities have grown. 
These regions are especially likely to have periods of severe dryness, so that crop failures are 
common. Since the raising of most crops necessitates the prior removal of the natural 
 
26 
 
vegetation, crop failures leave extensive tracts of land devoid of a plant cover and susceptible 
to wind and water erosion. 
The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where grasses are 
generally the dominant type of natural vegetation. The consequences of an excessive number of 
livestock grazing in an area are the reduction of the vegetation cover and the trampling and 
pulverization of the soil. This is usually followed by the drying of the soil and accelerated 
erosion. 
Firewood is the chief fuel used for cooking and heating in many countries. The increased 
pressures of expanding populations have led to the removal of woody plants so that many cities 
and towns are surrounded by large areas completely lacking in trees and shrubs. The increasing 
use of dried animal waste as a substitute fuel has also hurt the soil because this valuable soil 
conditioner and source of plant nutrients is no longer being returned to the land. 
The final major human cause of desertification is soil salinization resulting from 
overirrigation. Excess water from irrigation sinks down into the water table. If no drainage 
system exists, the water table rises, bringing dissolved salts to the surface. The water 
evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and 
water from reaching the underlying soil. 
The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land and the 
tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing or 
even slowing the process. Once the soil has been removed by erosion, only the passage of 
centuries or millennia will enable new soil to form. In areas where considerable soil still 
remains, though, a rigorously enforced program of land protection and cover-crop planting may 
make it possible to reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
Paragraph 1: The deserts, which already occupy approximately a fourth of the Earth's land 
surface, have in recent decades been increasing at an alarming pace. The expansion of desert-
like conditions into areas where they did not previously exist is called desertification. It has 
been estimated that an additional one-fourth of the Earth's land surface is threatened by this 
process. 
1. The word threatened in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ restricted 
○ endangered 
○ prevented 
○ rejected 
 
Paragraph 3: Even in the areas that retain a soil cover, the reduction of vegetation typically 
results in the loss of the soil's ability to absorb substantial quantities of water. The impact of 
raindrops on the loose soil tends to transfer fine clay particles into the tiniest soil spaces, 
sealing them and producing a surface that allows very little water penetration. Water absorption 
is greatly reduced; consequently runoff is increased, resulting in accelerated erosion rates. The 
gradual drying of the soil caused by its diminished ability to absorb water results in the further 
loss of vegetation, so that a cycle of progressive surface deterioration is established. 
2. According to paragraph 3, the loss of natural vegetation has which of the 
following consequences for soil? 
○ Increased stony content 
○ Reduced water absorption 
○ Increased numbers of spaces in the soil| 
○ Reduced water runoff 
Paragraph 5: There is little doubt, however, that desertification in most areas results primarily 
from human activities rather than natural processes. The semiarid lands bordering the deserts 
exist in a delicate ecological balance and are limited in their potential to adjust to increased 
environmental pressures. Expanding populations are subjecting the land to increasing pressures 
to provide them with food and fuel. In wet periods, the land may be able to respond to these 
stresses. During the dry periods that are common phenomena along the desert margins, though, 
the pressure on the land is often far in excess of its diminished capacity, and desertification 
results. 
 
 
28 
 
3. The word delicate in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ fragile  
○ predictable  
○ complex 
○ valuable  
4. According to paragraph 5, in dry periods, border areas have difficulty 
○ Adjusting to stresses created by settlement  
○ Retaining their fertility after desertification  
○ Providing water for irrigating crops  
○ Attracting populations in search of food and fuel  
Paragraph 6: Four specific activities have been identified as major contributors to the 
desertification processes: overcultivation, overgrazing, firewood gathering, and overirrigation. 
The cultivation of crops has expanded into progressively drier regions as population densities 
have grown. These regions are especially likely to have periods of severe dryness, so that crop 
failures are common. Since the raising of most crops necessitates the prior removal of the 
natural vegetation, crop failures leave extensive tracts of land devoid of a plant cover and 
susceptible to wind and water erosion. 
5. The word progressively in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ openly 
○ impressively 
○ objectively 
○ increasingly 
6. According to paragraph 6, which of the following is often associated with 
raising crops? 
○ Lack of proper irrigation techniques 
○ Failure to plant crops suited to the particular area 
○ Removal of the original vegetation 
○ Excessive use of dried animal waste 
7. The phrase devoid of in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ consisting of 
○ hidden by 
○ except for 
○ lacking in 
 
29 
 
Paragraph 9: The final major human cause of desertification is soil salinization resulting from 
overirrigation. Excess water from irrigation sinks down into the water table. If no drainage 
system exists, the water table rises, bringing dissolved salts to the surface. The water 
evaporates and the salts are left behind, creating a white crustal layer that prevents air and 
water from reaching the underlying soil. 
8. According to paragraph 9, the ground's absorption of excess water is a factor in 
desertification because it can 
○ interfere with the irrigation of land 
○ limit the evaporation of water 
○ require more absorption of air by the soil 
○ bring salts to the surface 
9. All of the following are mentioned in the passage as contributing to 
desertification EXCEPT 
○ soil erosion 
○ global warming 
○ insufficient irrigation 
○ the raising of livestock 
Paragraph 10: The extreme seriousness of desertification results from the vast areas of land 
and the tremendous numbers of people affected, as well as from the great difficulty of reversing 
or even slowing the process. Once the soil has been removed by erosion, only the passage of 
centuries or millennia will enable new soil to form. In areas where considerable soil still 
remains, though, a program of land protection and cover-crop planting may make it possible to 
reverse the present deterioration of the surface. 
10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○ Desertification is a significant problem because it is so hard to reverse and affects large areas 
of land and great numbers of people. 
○ Slowing down the process of desertification is difficult because of population growth that has 
spread over large areas of land. 
○ The spread of deserts is considered a very serious problem that can be solved only if large 
numbers of people in various countries are involved in the effort. 
○ Desertification is extremely hard to reverse unless the population is reduced in the vast areas 
affected. 
 
30 
 
11. It can be inferred from the passage that the author most likely believes which 
of the following about the future of desertification? 
○ Governments will act quickly to control further desertification. 
○ The factors influencing desertification occur in cycles and will change in the future. 
○ Desertification will continue to increase. 
○ Desertification will soon occur in all areas of the world. 
Paragraph 7: ■ The raising of livestock is a major economic activity in semiarid lands, where 
grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation. ■ The consequences of an 
excessive number of livestock grazing in an area are the reduction of the vegetation cover and 
the trampling and pulverization of the soil. ■ This is usually followed by the drying of the soil 
and accelerated erosion. ■ 
12. Look at the four squares A that indicate where the following sentence can be 
added to the passage. 
 
This economic reliance on livestock in certain regions makes large tracts of land susceptible 
to overgrazing. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit? 
 
13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage . Some answer choices do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
Many factors have contributed to the great increase in desertification in recent decades. 
 
<Answer Choices> 
● 
● 
● 
○ Growing human populations and the agricultural demands that come with such growth have 
upset the ecological balance in some areas and led to the spread of deserts. 
○ As periods of severe dryness have become more common, failures of a number of different 
crops have increased. 
 
31 
 
○ Excessive numbers of cattle and the need for firewood for fuel have reduced grasses and 
trees, leaving the land unprotected and vulnerable. 
○ Extensive irrigation with poor drainage brings salt to the surface of the soil, a process that 
reduces water and air absorption. 
○ Animal dung enriches the soil by providing nutrients for plant growth. 
○ Grasses are generally the dominant type of natural vegetation in semiarid lands. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
Early Cinema 
 
The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology evolved 
from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a screen in a 
darkened theater. In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small opening in a 
machine that was created for that purpose. Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the Kinetoscope, 
was introduced to the public in 1894. It was designed for use in Kinetoscope parlors, or 
arcades, which contained only a few individual machines and permitted only one customer to 
view a short, 50-foot film at any one time. The first Kinetoscope parlors contained five 
machines. For the price of 25 cents (or 5 cents per machine), customers moved from machine 
to machine to watch five different films (or, in the case of famous prizefights, successive 
rounds of a single fight). 
 
These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had proven 
successful for Edison several years earlier. In the phonograph parlors, customers listened to 
recordings through individual ear tubes, moving from one machine to the next to hear different 
recorded speeches or pieces of music. The Kinetoscope parlors functioned in a similar way. 
Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 apiece) to these 
parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately $10 to $15 
each). He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and sold 
projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead of 
several. 
 
Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do 
more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than 
one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission. About a year after the opening of the 
first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat 
and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of 
Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices. These early 
projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, 
makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass 
audience. 
 
With the advent of projection in 1895-1896, motion pictures became the ultimate form of 
mass consumption. Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the theater, where 
vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, lectures, and slide-
and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a time. But the movies 
 
33 
 
differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which depended on either live 
performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active involvement of a master 
of ceremonies who assembled the final program. 
 
Although early exhibitors regularly accompanied movies with live acts, the substance of 
the movies themselves is mass-produced, prerecorded material that can easily be reproduced by 
theaters with little or no active participation by the exhibitor. Even though early exhibitors 
shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in whichever 
way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them with 
lectures, their creative control remained limited. What audiences came to see was the 
technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of 
trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made 
possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera. 
 
With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no longer 
private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the 
Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive 
images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid. It suddenly became 
public-an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others. 
At the same time, the image that the spectator looked at expanded from the minuscule 
peepshow dimensions of 1 or 2 inches (in height) to the life-size proportions of 6 or 9 feet. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
 
Paragraph 1: The cinema did not emerge as a form of mass consumption until its technology 
evolved from the initial "peepshow" format to the point where images were projected on a 
screen in a darkened theater. In the peepshow format, a film was viewed through a small 
opening in a machine that was created for that purpose. Thomas Edison's peepshow device, the 
Kinetoscope, was introduced to the public in 1894. It was designed for use in Kinetoscope 
parlors, or arcades, which contained only a few individual machines and permitted only one 
customer to view a short, 50-foot film at any one time. The first Kinetoscope parlors contained 
five machines. For the price of 25 cents (or 5 cents per machine), customers moved from 
machine to machine to watch five different films (or, in the case of famous prizefights, 
successive rounds of a single fight). 
 
1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following were true of viewing films in 
Kinetoscope parlors EXCEPT: 
○ one individual at a time viewed a film. 
○ Customers could view one film after another. 
○ Prizefights were the most popular subjects for films. 
○ Each film was short. 
  
Paragraph 2: These Kinetoscope arcades were modeled on phonograph parlors, which had 
proven successful for Edison several years earlier. In the phonograph parlors, customers 
listened to recordings through individual ear tubes, moving from one machine to the next to 
hear different recorded speeches or pieces of music. The Kinetoscope parlors functioned in a 
similar way. Edison was more interested in the sale of Kinetoscopes (for roughly $1,000 
apiece) to these parlors than in the films that would be run in them (which cost approximately 
$10 to $15 each). He refused to develop projection technology, reasoning that if he made and 
sold projectors, then exhibitors would purchase only one machine-a projector-from him instead 
of several. 
 
2. The author discusses phonograph parlors in paragraph 2 in order to 
○ Explain Edison's financial success 
○ Describe the model used to design Kinetoscope parlors 
○ Contrast their popularity to that of Kinetoscope parlors 
○ Illustrate how much more technologically advanced Kinetoscope parlors were 
 
 
 
35 
 
3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence from the passage? Incorrect answer choices change the 
meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. 
○ Edison was more interested in developing a variety of machines than in developing a 
technology based on only one. 
○ Edison refused to work on projection technology because he did not think exhibitors would 
replace their projectors with newer machines. 
○ Edison did not want to develop projection technology because it limited the number of 
machines he could sell. 
○ Edison would not develop projection technology unless exhibitors agreed to purchase more 
than one projector from him. 
 
Paragraph 3: Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do 
more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than 
one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission. About a year after the opening of the 
first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas Armat 
and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of 
Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices. These early 
projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, 
makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass 
audience. 
 
4. The word readily in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ Frequently 
○ Easily 
○ Intelligently 
○ obviously 
 
5. The word assistance in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ Criticism 
○ Leadership 
○ Help 
○ Approval 
 
 
 
36 
 
Paragraph 4: With the advent of projection in 1895-1896, motion pictures became the 
ultimate form of mass consumption. Previously, large audiences had viewed spectacles at the 
theater, where vaudeville, popular dramas, musical and minstrel shows, classical plays, 
lectures, and slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to several hundred spectators at a 
time. But the movies differed significantly from these other forms of entertainment, which 
depended on either live performance or (in the case of the slide-and-lantern shows) the active 
involvement of a master of ceremonies who assembled the final program. 
 
 
6. According to paragraph 4, how did the early movies differ from previous 
spectacles that were presented to large audiences? 
○ They were a more expensive form of entertainment. 
○ They were viewed by larger audiences. 
○ They were more educational. 
○ They did not require live entertainers. 
 
 
Paragraph 5: Although early exhibitors regularly accompanied movies with live acts, the 
substance of the movies themselves is mass-produced, prerecorded material that can easily be 
reproduced by theaters with little or no active participation by the exhibitor. Even though early 
exhibitors shaped their film programs by mixing films and other entertainments together in 
whichever way they thought would be most attractive to audiences or by accompanying them 
with lectures, their creative control remained limited. What audiences came to see was the 
technological marvel of the movies; the lifelike reproduction of the commonplace motion of 
trains, of waves striking the shore, and of people walking in the street; and the magic made 
possible by trick photography and the manipulation of the camera. 
 
 
7. According to paragraph 5, what role did early exhibitors play in the presentation 
of movies in theaters? 
○ They decided how to combine various components of the film program. 
○ They advised film-makers on appropriate movie content. 
○ They often took part in the live-action performances. 
○ They produced and prerecorded the material that was shown in the theaters. 
 
 
 
37 
 
Paragraph 6: With the advent of projection, the viewer's relationship with the image was no 
longer private, as it had been with earlier peepshow devices such as the Kinetoscope and the 
Mutoscope, which was a similar machine that reproduced motion by means of successive 
images on individual photographic cards instead of on strips of celluloid. It suddenly became 
public-an experience that the viewer shared with dozens, scores, and even hundreds of others. 
At the same time, the image that the spectator looked at expanded from the minuscule 
peepshow dimensions of 1 or 2 inches (in height) to the life-size proportions of 6 or 9 feet. 
 
 
8. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 6 as one of the ways the 
Mutoscope differed from the Kinetoscope? 
○ Sound and motion were simultaneously produced in the Mutoscope. 
○ More than one person could view the images at the same time with the Mutoscope. 
○ The Mutoscope was a less sophisticated earlier prototype of the Kinetoscope. 
○ A different type of material was used to produce the images used in the Mutocope. 
 
 
9. The word it in the passage refers to 
○ The advent of projection 
○ The viewer's relationship with the image 
○ A similar machine 
○ Celluloid 
 
10. According to paragraph 6, the images seen by viewers in the earlier 
peepshows, compared to the images projected on the screen, were relatively 
○ Small in size 
○ Inexpensive to create 
○ Unfocused 
○ Limited in subject matter 
 
11. The word expanded in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ Was enlarged 
○ Was improved 
○ Was varied 
○ Was rejected 
 
 
38 
 
Paragraph 3: ■ Exhibitors, however, wanted to maximize their profits, which they could do 
more readily by projecting a handful of films to hundreds of customers at a time (rather than 
one at a time) and by charging 25 to 50 cents admission. ■ About a year after the opening of 
the first Kinetoscope parlor in 1894, showmen such as Louis and Auguste Lumiere, Thomas 
Armat and Charles Francis Jenkins, and Orville and Woodville Latham (with the assistance of 
Edison's former assistant, William Dickson) perfected projection devices. ■ These early 
projection devices were used in vaudeville theaters, legitimate theaters, local town halls, 
makeshift storefront theaters, fairgrounds, and amusement parks to show films to a mass 
audience. ■ 
 
12. Look at the four squares A that indicate where the following sentence can be 
added to the passage. 
 
When this widespread use of projection technology began to hurt his Kinetoscope 
business, Edison acquired a projector developed by Armat and introduced it as "Edison's 
latest marvel, the Vitascope." 
 
Where would the sentence best fit? 
 
13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
The technology for modern cinema evolved at the end of the nineteenth century. 
<Answer Choices> 
● 
● 
● 
○ Kinetoscope parlors for viewing films were modeled on phonograph parlors.  
○ Thomas Edison's design of the Kinetoscope inspired the development of large screen projection. 
○ Early cinema allowed individuals to use special machines to view films privately.  
○ Slide-and-lantern shows had been presented to audiences of hundreds of spectators.  
 
39 
 
○ The development of projection technology made it possible to project images on a large screen. 
○ Once film images could be projected, the cinema became form of mass consumption. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
수고하셨습니다. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
지문당 제한시간을 18-20 분을 엄수해 주세요. 
(목표점수가 높을수록 18 분, 아닐수록 20 분) 
본 문제는 반드시 지면이 아닌, 컴퓨터 화면으로 풀어야 합니다. 
지문당 최대 2 장의 A4 용지를 사용하실 수 있습니다. 
지문은 총 5 개입니다.  
 
 
 
 
1 
 
A Warm-Blooded Turtle 
 
When it comes to physiology, the leatherback turtle is, in some ways, more like a 
reptilian whale than a turtle. It swims farther into the cold of the northern and southern 
oceans than any other sea turtle, and it deals with the chilly waters in a way unique among 
reptiles. 
 
A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms. Nonetheless, an 
adult leatherback can maintain a body temperature of between 25 and 26°C (77 - 79°F) in 
seawater that is only 8°C (46.4°F). Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to 
generate heat in the turtle' s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters. 
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as 
a by-product of cellular metabolism. A leatherback may be able to pick up some body heat 
by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar 
radiation. However, most of its internal heat comes from the action of its muscles. 
 
Leatherbacks keep their body heat in three different ways. The first, and simplest, is 
size. The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface-to-volume ratio; for every ounce of body 
mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape. An adult 
leatherback is twice the size of the biggest cheloniid sea turtles and will therefore take 
longer to cool off. Maintaining a high body temperature through sheer bulk is called 
gigantothermy. It works for elephants, for whales, and, perhaps, it worked for many of the 
larger dinosaurs. It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles. Large 
loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above 
that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it. Muscular 
activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7°C (12.6° F) warmer 
than the waters it swims through. 
 
Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in cold 
northern waters. It is not enough for whales, which supplement it with a thick layer of 
insulating blubber (fat). Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian 
equivalent: thick, oil-saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it. 
Insulation protects the leatherback everywhere but on its head and flippers. Because the 
flippers are comparatively thin and blade like, they are the one part of the leatherback that is 
likely to become chilled. There is not much that the turtle can do about this without 
compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper. The problem is that as blood flows 
through the turtle's flippers, it risks losing enough heat to lower the animal's central body 
temperature when it returns. The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without 
drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle's body. The leatherback accomplishes this by 
 
2 
 
arranging the blood vessels in the base of its flipper into a countercurrent exchange system. 
In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood from 
the flippers run close enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body to 
pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the 
outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself. This is the same 
arrangement found in an old-fashioned steam radiator, in which the coiled pipes pass heat 
back and forth as water courses through them. The leatherback is certainly not the only 
animal with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs. That is 
why a gull can stand on an ice floe without freezing. 
 
All this applies, of course, only to an adult leatherback. Hatchlings are simply too 
small to conserve body heat, even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems. We 
do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a cold -
blooded to a warm-blooded mode of life. Leatherbacks reach their immense size in a much 
shorter time than it takes other sea turtles to grow. Perhaps their rush to adulthood is driven 
by a simple need to keep warm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Paragraph 1：When it comes to physiology, the leatherback turtle is, in some ways, more 
like a reptilian whale than a turtle. It swims farther into the cold of the northern and 
southern oceans than any other sea turtle, and it deals with the chilly waters in a way unique 
among reptiles. 
 
1. The phrase unique among in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○natural to  
○different from all other  
○quite common among  
○familiar to  
 
2. What can be inferred about whales from paragraph 1? 
○They are considered by some to be reptiles.  
○Their bodies are built in a way that helps them manage extremely cold temperatures  
○They are distantly related to leatherback turtles.  
○They can swim farther than leatherback turtles.  
 
Paragraph 2: A warm-blooded turtle may seem to be a contradiction in terms. Nonetheless, 
an adult leatherback can maintain a body temperature of between 25 and 26°C (77 - 79°F) in 
seawater that is only 8°C (46.4°F). Accomplishing this feat requires adaptations both to  
generate heat in the turtle' s body and to keep it from escaping into the surrounding waters. 
Leatherbacks apparently do not generate internal heat the way we do, or the way birds do, as 
a by-product of cellular metabolism. A leatherback may be able to pi ck up some body heat 
by basking at the surface; its dark, almost black body color may help it to absorb solar 
radiation. However, most of its internal heat comes from the action of its muscles. 
 
3. The word feat in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○remarkable achievement  
○common transformation  
○daily activity  
○complex solution - 
 
4. Paragraph 2 mentions all of the following as true about the body heat of adult 
leatherback turtles EXCEPT: 
○Their muscles produce heat for maintaining body temperature.  
○Their dark bodies help trap solar radiation.  
○Their cellular metabolism produces heat as a by-product.  
○Basking at the water’s surface helps them obtain heat. 
 
 
4 
 
Paragraph 3:  Leatherbacks keep their body heat in three different ways. The fir st, and 
simplest, is size. The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface -to-volume ratio; for every 
ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape. An 
adult leatherback is twice the size of the biggest cheloniid sea turtles and will therefore take 
longer to cool off. Maintaining a high body temperature through sheer bulk is called 
gigantothermy. It works for elephants, for whales, and, perhaps, it worked  for many of the 
larger dinosaurs. It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles. Large 
loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above 
that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probab ly the way they do it. Muscular 
activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7°C (12.6° F) warmer than 
the waters it swims through. 
 
5. The word bulk in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○strength 
○effort 
○activity 
○mass 
 
Paragraph 4: Gigantothermy, though, would not be enough to keep a leatherback warm in 
cold northern waters. It is not enough for whales, which supplement it with a thick layer of 
insulating blubber (fat). Leatherbacks do not have blubber, but they do have a reptilian 
equivalent: thick, oil -saturated skin, with a layer of fibrous, fatty tissue just beneath it. 
Insulation protects the leatherback everywhere but on its head and flippers. Because the 
flippers are comparatively thin and blade like, they are the one part of the leatherback that is 
likely to become chilled. There is not much that the turtle can do about this without 
compromising the aerodynamic shape of the flipper. The problem is that as blood flows 
through the turtle's flippers, it risks losing enough heat t o lower the animal's central body 
temperature when it returns. The solution is to allow the flippers to cool down without 
drawing heat away from the rest of the turtle's body. The leatherback accomplishes this by 
arranging the blood vessels in the base of its flipper into a countercurrent exchange system. 
 
6. The word it in paragraph 4 refers to 
○the problem 
○blood 
○the turtle 
○body temperature 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
7. According to paragraph 4, which of the following features enables the 
leatherback turtle to stay warm? 
○An insulating layer of blubber  
○A thick, oily skin covering fatty tissue  
○The aerodynamic shape of its flippers  
○A well-insulated head  
 
Paragraph 5: In a countercurrent exchange system, the blood vessels carrying cooled blood 
from the flippers run clo se enough to the blood vessels carrying warm blood from the body 
to pick up some heat from the warmer blood vessels; thus, the heat is transferred from the 
outgoing to the ingoing vessels before it reaches the flipper itself.  This is the same 
arrangement found in an old -fashioned steam radiator, in which the coiled pipes pass heat 
back and forth as water courses through them. The leatherback is certainly not the only animal 
with such an arrangement; gulls have a countercurrent exchange in their legs. That is why a 
gull can stand on an ice floe without freezing. 
 
8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○In a turtle's countercurrent exchange system, o utgoing vessels lie near enough to ingoing 
ones that heat can be exchanged from the former to the latter before reaching the turtle' s 
flippers  
○Within the turtle's flippers, there is a countercurrent exchange system that allows colder 
blood vessels to absorb heat from nearby warmer blood vessels and then return warmed blood 
to the turtle's body.  
○In a countercurrent exchange system, a turtle can pick up body heat from being close enough 
to other turtles, thus raising its blood temperature as it passes them 
○When a turtle places its flippers close to its body, it is able to use its countercurrent exchange 
system to transfer heat from the warmer blood vessels in its body to the cooler blood vessels 
in its flippers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
9. Why does the author mention old-fashioned steam radiator in the discussion 
of countercurrent exchange systems? 
○To argue that a turtle' s central heating system is not as highly evolved as that of other warm-
blooded animals  
○To provide a useful comparison with which to illus trate how a countercurrent exchange 
system works  
○To suggest that steam radiators were modeled after the sophisticated heating system of 
turtles  
○To establish the importance of the movement of water in countercurrent exchange systems  
 
10. The phrase courses through in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○rises through 
○heats up in  
○runs through  
○collects in 
 
Paragraph 6：All this applies, of course, only to an adult leatherback. Hatchlings are simply 
too small to conserve body heat, e ven with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems. 
We do not know how old, or how large, a leatherback has to be before it can switch from a 
cold-blooded to a warm -blooded mode of life. Leatherbacks reach their immense size in a 
much shorter time tha n it takes other sea turtles to grow. Perhaps their rush to adulthood is 
driven by a simple need to keep warm. 
 
11. According to paragraph 6, which of the following statements is most accurate 
about young leatherback turtles? 
○They lack the countercurrent exchange systems that develop in adulthood.  
○Their rate of growth is slower than that of other sea turtles.  
○They lose heat easily even with insulation and countercurrent exchange systems.  
○They switch between cold -blooded and warm -blooded modes throughout their hatchling 
stage.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
Paragraph 3:  Leatherbacks keep their body heat in three different ways. The first, and 
simplest, is size. The bigger the animal is, the lower its surface -to-volume ratio; for every 
ounce of body mass, there is proportionately less surface through which heat can escape . An 
adult leatherback is twice the size of the biggest cheloniid sea turtles and will therefore take 
longer to cool off. Maintaining a high body temperature through sheer bulk is called 
gigantothermy. ■ It works for elephants, for whales, and, perhaps, it worked for many of the 
larger dinosaurs. ■ It apparently works, in a smaller way, for some other sea turtles. ■ Large 
loggerhead and green turtles can maintain their body temperature at a degree or two above 
that of the surrounding water, and gigantothermy is probably the way they do it. ■ Muscular 
activity helps, too, and an actively swimming green turtle may be 7°C (12.6° F) warmer than 
the waters it swims through. 
 
12. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
However, these animals have additional means of staying warm. 
Where would the sentence best fit? 
 
13. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
Contrary to what we would expect of reptiles, the leatherback turtle is actually warm-blooded. 
●  
●  
●  
<Answer Choices> 
○Even though they swim into cold ocean waters, leatherbacks maintain their body heat in 
much the same way as sea turtles in warm southern oceans do.  
○The leatherback turtle uses a countercurrent exchange system in order to keep the flippers 
from drawing heat away from the rest of the body. 
○The shape of the leatherback turtle's flippers is especially important in maintaining heat in 
extremely cold northern waters.  
○The leatherback turtle is able to maintain body heat through sheer size.  
○Leatherbacks have an insulating layer that can be considered the reptilian version of blubber. 
○Young leatherbacks often do not  survive to adulthood because they are not able to switch 
from a cold-blooded way of life to a warm-blooded one quickly enough.  
 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
Agriculture, Iron, and the Bantu Peoples 
 
There is evidence of agriculture in Africa prior to 3000 B.C. It may have developed 
independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron throughout 
Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world. The drying 
up of what is now the Sahara Desert had pushed  many peoples to the south into sub -Sahara 
Africa. These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting -and-gathering bands, although in 
some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a more secure food supply, lived 
in larger population concentrations. Agriculture seems to have reached these people from the 
Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums whose origins are not 
African but west Asian. Once the idea of planting diffused, Africans began to develop their 
own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a continued receptiveness 
to new imports. The proposed areas of the domestication of African crops lie in a band that 
extends from Ethiopia across southern Sudan to West Africa. Subsequently, other crops, such 
as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia. 
 
Livestock also came from outside Africa. Cattle were introduced from Asia, as 
probably were domestic sheep and goats. Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos 
invaders of Egypt (1780-1560 B.C.) and then spread across the Sudan to West Africa. Rock 
paintings in the Sahara indicate that horses and chariots were used to traverse the desert and 
that by 300 -200 B.C., there were trade routes across the Sahara. Horses were adopted by 
peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them 
to carve out large empires. Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century A.D. 
This was an important innovation, because the camel’s abilities to thrive in har sh desert 
conditions and to carry large loads cheaply made it an effective and efficient means of 
transportation. The camel transformed the desert from a barrier into a still difficult, but more 
accessible, route of trade and communication. 
 
Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat different 
than those of agriculture. Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies moved 
directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermediate stage of 
copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper -working sites have been found in 
West Africa. Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of West 
Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe. Evidence of iron 
making has been found in Nigeria, Ghana, and Mali. 
 
This technological shift cause profound changes in the complexity of African societies. 
Iron represented power. In West Africa the blacksmith who made tools and functions. Iron 
hoes, which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more 
powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies. Those who knew the 
 
10 
 
secrets of making iron gained ritual and sometimes political power. 
 
Unlike in the Americas, where me tallurgy was a very late and limited development, 
Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces to produce the 
high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached the carbon and 
iron ore necessary for making iron. Much of Africa moved right into the Iron Age, taking the 
basic technology and adapting it to local; conditions and resources. 
 
The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great movement 
of people who may have carried  these innovations. These people probably originated in 
eastern Nigeria. Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in population 
caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the Sahara. They 
spoke a language, prior-Bantu (“Bantu” means “the people”), which is the parent tongue of a 
language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout sub -Sahara Africa. 
Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa remains a mystery, but 
archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer their hunting -
gathering opponents, who still used stone implements. Still, the process is uncertain, and 
peaceful migration—or simply rapid demographic growth—may have also caused the Bantu 
explosion.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
Paragraph 1:  There is evidence of agriculture in Africa prior to 3000 B.C. It may have 
developed independently, but many scholars believe that the spread of agriculture and iron 
throughout Africa linked it to the major centers of the Near East and Mediterranean world.  
The drying up of what is now the Sahara Desert had pushed many peoples to the south into 
sub-Sahara Africa. These peoples settled at first in scattered hunting -and-gathering bands, 
although in some places near lakes and rivers, people who fished, with a m ore secure food 
supply, lived in larger population concentrations. Agriculture seems to have reached these 
people from the Near East, since the first domesticated crops were millets and sorghums 
whose origins are not African but west Asian. Once the idea o f planting diffused, Africans 
began to develop their own crops, such as certain varieties of rice, and they demonstrated a 
continued receptiveness to new imports. The proposed areas of the domestication of African 
crops lie in a band that extends from Ethi opia across southern Sudan to West Africa. 
Subsequently, other crops, such as bananas, were introduced from Southeast Asia. 
 
1. The word diffused in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○emerged 
○was understood 
○spread 
○developed 
 
2. According to paragraph 1, why do researchers doubt that agriculture developed 
independently in Africa? 
○African lakes and rivers already provided enough food for people to survive without 
agriculture. 
○The earliest examples of cultivated plants discovered in Africa are native to Asia.       
○Africa’s native plants are very difficult to domesticate.   
○African communities were not large enough to support agriculture. 
 
3. In paragraph 1, what does the author imply about changes in the African 
environment during this time period? 
○The climate was becoming milder, allowing for a greater variety of crops to be grown. 
○Although periods of drying forced people south, they returned once their food supply was 
secure. 
○Population growth along rivers and lakes was dramatically decreasing the availability of fish.  
○A region that had once supported many people was becoming a desert where few could 
survive. 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Paragraph 2: Livestock also came from outside Africa. Cattle were introduced from Asia, 
as probably were domestic sheep and goats. Horses were apparently introduced by the Hyksos 
invaders of Egypt (1780-1560 B.C.) and then spread across the Sudan to West Africa. Rock 
paintings in the Sahara indicate that horses and chariots were used to traverse the desert and 
that by 3 00-200 B.C., there were trade routes across the Sahara. Horses were adopted by 
peoples of the West African savannah, and later their powerful cavalry forces allowed them 
to carve out large empires. Finally, the camel was introduced around the first century  A.D. 
This was an important innovation, because the camel’s abilities to thrive in harsh desert 
conditions and to carry large loads cheaply made it an effective and efficient means of 
transportation. The camel transformed the desert from a barrier into a still difficult, but more 
accessible, route of trade and communication. 
 
4. According to paragraph 2, camels were important because they 
○were the first domesticated animal to be introduced to Africa  
○allowed the people of the West African savannahs to carve out large empires 
○helped African peoples defend themselves against Egyptian invaders       
○made it cheaper and easier to cross the Sahara 
 
5. According to paragraph 2, which of the following were subjects of rock 
paintings in the Sahara? 
○Horses and chariots       
○Sheep and goats 
○Hyksos invaders from Egypt 
○Camels and cattle 
 
Paragraph 3: Iron came from West Asia, although its routes of diffusion were somewhat 
different than those of agriculture. Most of Africa presents a curious case in which societies 
moved directly from a technology of stone to iron without passing through the intermedi ate 
stage of copper or bronze metallurgy, although some early copper -working sites have been 
found in West Africa. Knowledge of iron making penetrated into the forest and savannahs of 
West Africa at roughly the same time that iron making was reaching Europe. Evidence of iron 
making has been found in Nigeria, Ghana, and Mali. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
 
6. What function does paragraph 3 serve in the organization of the passage as a 
whole? 
○It contrasts the development of iron technology in West Asia and West Africa.       
○It discusses a non-agricultural contribution to Africa from Asia.  
○It introduces evidence that a knowledge of copper working reached Africa and Europe at 
the same time. 
○It compares the rates at which iron technology developed in different parts of Africa.  
 
Paragraph 4: This technological shift cause profound changes in the complexity of African 
societies. Iron represented power. In West Africa the blacksmith who made tools and weapons 
had an important place in society, often with special religious powers and functions. Iron hoes, 
which made the land more productive, and iron weapons, which made the warrior more 
powerful, had symbolic meaning in a number of West Africa societies. Those who knew the 
secrets of making iron gained ritual and sometimes political power. 
 
7. The word profound in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○fascinating  
○far-reaching 
○necessary 
○temporary 
 
8. The word ritual in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○military 
○physical 
○ceremonial 
○permanent 
 
9. According to paragraph 4, all of the following were social effects of the new 
metal technology in Africa EXCEPT: 
○Access to metal tools and weapons created greater social equality.  
○Metal weapons increased the power of warriors.       
○Iron tools helped increase the food supply.  
○Technical knowledge gave religious power to its holders.       
 
Paragraph 5:  Unlike in the Americas, where metallurgy was a very late and limited 
development, Africans had iron from a relatively early date, developing ingenious furnaces / 
to produce the high heat needed for production and to control the amount of air that reached 
the carbon and iron ore necessary for making iron. Much of Africa moved right into the Iron 
Age, taking the basic technology and adapting it to local; conditions and resources. 
 
14 
 
10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○While American iron makers developed the latest furnaces, African iron makers continued 
using earlier techniques. 
○Africans produced iron much earlier than Americans, inventing technologically 
sophisticated heating systems.  
○Iron making developed earlier in Africa than in the Americas because of the ready 
availability of carbon and iron ore.       
○Both Africa and the Americas developed the capacity for making iron early, but African 
metallurgy developed at a slower rate.  
 
Paragraph 6:  The diffusion of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great 
movement of people who may have carried these innovations. These people probably 
originated in eastern Nigeria. Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase in 
population caused by a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the 
Sahara. They spoke a language, prior -Bantu (“Bantu” means “the people”), which is the 
parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spo ken throughout 
sub-Sahara Africa. Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa 
remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer 
their hunting -gathering opponents, who still used stone imp lements. Still, the process is 
uncertain, and peaceful migration —or simply rapid demographic growth —may have also 
caused the Bantu explosion.  
 
11. The word fleeing in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○afraid of 
○displaced by 
○running away from 
○responding to 
 
12. Paragraph 6 mentions all of the following as possible causes of the “Bantu 
explosion” EXCEPT: 
○superior weapons       
○better hunting skills       
○peaceful migration       
○increased population       
 
 
 
 
15 
 
Paragraph 6:  The diffusio n of agriculture and later of iron was accompanied by a great 
movement of people who may have carried these innovations. These people probably 
originated in eastern Nigeria. ■Their migration may have been set in motion by an increase 
in population caused b y a movement of peoples fleeing the desiccation, or drying up, of the 
Sahara. ■They spoke a language, prior -Bantu (“Bantu” means “the people”), which is the 
parent tongue of a language of a large number of Bantu languages still spoken throughout 
sub-Sahara Africa. Why and how these people spread out into central and southern Africa 
remains a mystery, but archaeologists believe that their iron weapons allowed them to conquer 
their hunting -gathering opponents, who still used stone implements. ■Still, the proc ess is 
uncertain, and peaceful migration —or simply rapid demographic growth —may have also 
caused the Bantu explosion. ■ 
 
13. Look at the four squares ■ that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
These people had a significant linguistic impact on the continent as well. 
Where would the sentence best fit? 
 
14. Direction: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
Agriculture and iron working probably spread to Africa from neighboring regions. 
● 
● 
● 
<Answer choices> 
1. Once Africans developed their own crops, they no longer borrowed from other regions.       
2. The harshness of the African climate meant that agriculture could not develop until after 
the introduction of iron tools.  
3. The use of livestock improved transportation and trade and allowed for new forms of 
political control.   
4. As the Sahara expanded, the camel gained in importance, eventually coming to have 
religious significance.  
5. The spread of iron working had far -reaching effects on social, economic, and political 
organization in Africa.   
6. Today's Bantu -speaking peoples are descended from a technologically advanced people 
who spread throughout Africa.       
 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
 
Ancient Egyptian Sculpture 
 
In order to understand ancient Egyptian art, it is vital to know as much as possible of 
the elite Egyptians' view of the world and the functions and contexts of the art produced for 
them. Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of Egyptian art, and 
we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped it and caused it 
to adopt its distinctive forms. In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the purpos es of 
Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorably with the art of other cultures: Why 
did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted through space 
like classical Greek statuary? Why do the artists seem to get left  and right confused? And 
why did they not discover the geometric perspective as European artists did in the 
Renaissance? The answer to such questions has nothing to do with a lack of skill or 
imagination on the part of Egyptian artists and everything to do with the purposes for which 
they were producing their art. 
 
The majority of three -dimensional representations, whether standing, seated, or 
kneeling, exhibit what is called frontality: they face straight ahead, neither twisting nor 
turning. When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without 
knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained 
unchanged for three thousand years. Frontality is, however, directly related to the fun ctions 
of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up. Statues were created 
not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and 
the dead. They were designed to be put in places where th ese beings could manifest 
themselves in order to be the recipients of ritual actions. Thus it made sense to show the 
statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the 
ritual could interact with the divine or dec eased recipient. Very often such statues were 
enclosed in rectangular shrines or wall niches whose only opening was at the front, making 
it natural for the statue to display frontality. Other statues were designed to be placed within 
an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples 
known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: 
their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context. 
 
Statues were normally made of stone, wood, or metal. Stone statues were worked from 
single rectangular blocks of material and retained the compactness of the original shape. The 
stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing figures or the legs and 
the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away. From a practical aspect this protected the 
figures against breakage and psychologically gives the images a sense of strength and power, 
usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar. By contrast, wooden statue s were carved from 
several pieces of wood that were pegged together to form the finished work, and metal statues 
were either made by wrapping sheet metal around a wooden core or cast by the lost wax 
 
18 
 
process. The arms could be held away from the body and carry separate items in their hands; 
there is no back pillar. The effect is altogether lighter and freer than that achieved in stone, 
but because both perform the same function, formal wooden and metal statues still display 
frontality. 
 
Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the elite that can 
be called formal, there is another group of three -dimensional representations that depicts 
generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population. The function of these is 
quite different. Many are made to be put in the tombs of the elite in order to serve the tomb 
owners in the afterlife. Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of standing, sitting, 
and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding grain, baking 
bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate poses, bending 
and squatting as they carry out their tasks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
Paragraph 1：In order to understand ancient Egyptian art, it is vital to know as much as 
possible of the elite Egyptians' view of the world and the functions and contexts of the art 
produced for them. Without this knowledge we can appreciate only the formal content of 
Egyptian art, and we will fail to understand why it was produced or the concepts that shaped 
it and caused it to adopt its distinctive forms. In fact, a lack of understanding concerning the 
purposes of Egyptian art has often led it to be compared unfavorab ly with the art of other 
cultures: Why did the Egyptians not develop sculpture in which the body turned and twisted 
through space like classical Greek statuary? Why do the artists seem to get left and right 
confused? And why did they not discover the geome tric perspective as European artists did 
in the Renaissance? The answer to such questions has nothing to do with a lack of skill or 
imagination on the part of Egyptian artists and everything to do with the purposes for which 
they were producing their art. 
 
1. The word vital in the passage is closest in 
○ attractive 
○ essential 
○ usual 
○ practical 
 
2. Paragraph 1 suggests that one reason Egyptian art is viewed less favorably than 
other art is that Egyptian art lacks 
○ a realistic sense of human body proportion   
○ a focus on distinctive forms of varying sizes   
○ the originality of European art       
○ the capacity to show the human body in motion       
 
3. In paragraph 1, the author mentions all of the followin g as necessary in 
appreciating Egyptian art EXCEPT an understanding of 
○ the reasons why the art was made       
○ the nature of aristocratic Egyptian beliefs       
○ the influences of Egyptian art on later art such as classical Greek art       
○ how the art was used       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Paragraph 2：The majority of three-dimensional representations, whether standing, seated, 
or kneeling, exhibit what is called frontality:  they face straight ahead, neither twisting nor 
turning. When such statues are viewed in isolation, out of their original context and without 
knowledge of their function, it is easy to criticize them for their rigid attitudes that remained 
unchanged for three thousand years. Frontality is, however, directly related to the functions 
of Egyptian statuary and the contexts in which the statues were set up. Statues were created 
not for their decorative effect but to play a primary role in the cults of the gods, the king, and 
the dead. They were designed to be put in places where these beings could manifest 
themselves in order to be the re cipients of ritual actions. Thus it made sense to show the 
statue looking ahead at what was happening in front of it, so that the living performer of the 
ritual could interact with the divine or deceased recipient. Very often such statues were 
enclosed in rectangular shrines or wall niches whose only opening was at the front, making 
it natural for the statue to display frontality. Other statues were designed to be placed within 
an architectural setting, for instance, in front of the monumental entrance gateways to temples 
known as pylons, or in pillared courts, where they would be placed against or between pillars: 
their frontality worked perfectly within the architectural context. 
 
4. According to paragraph 2, why are Egyptian statues portrayed frontality? 
○ To create a psychological effect of distance and isolation       
○ To allow them to fulfill their important role in ceremonies of Egyptian life       
○ To provide a contrast to statues with a decorative function       
○ To suggest the rigid, unchanging Egyptian philosophical attitudes       
 
5. The word context in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ connection 
○ influence 
○ environment 
○ requirement 
 
6. The author mentions an architectural setting in the passage in order to 
○ suggest that architecture was as important as sculpture to Egyptian artists   
○ offer a further explanation for the frontal pose of Egyptian statues       
○ explain how the display of statues replaced other forms of architectural decoration       
○ illustrate the religious function of Egyptian statues       
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
7. The word they in the passage refers to 
○ statues 
○ gateways 
○ temples 
○ pillared courts 
 
Paragraph 3 ：Statues were normally made of stone, wood, or metal. Stone statues were 
worked from single rectangular blocks of material and retained the compactness  of the 
original shape. The stone between the arms and the body and between the legs in standing 
figures or the legs and the seat in seated ones was not normally cut away. From a practical 
aspect this protected the figures against breakage and psychologica lly gives the images a 
sense of strength and power, usually enhanced by a supporting back pillar. By contrast, 
wooden statues were carved from several pieces of wood that were pegged together to form 
the finished work, and metal statues were either made by  wrapping sheet metal around a 
wooden core or cast by the lost wax process. The arms could be held away from the body and 
carry separate items in their hands; there is no back pillar. The effect is altogether lighter and 
freer than that achieved in stone, but because both perform the same function, formal wooden 
and metal statues still display frontality. 
 
8. According to paragraph 3, why were certain areas of a stone statue left 
uncarved? 
○ To prevent damage by providing physical stability  
○ To emphasize that the material was as important as the figure itself       
○ To emphasize that the figure was not meant to be a real human being       
○ To provide another artist with the chance to finish the carving       
 
9. The word core in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ material 
○ layer 
○ center 
○ frame 
 
10. According to paragraph 3, which of the following statements about wooden 
statues is true? 
○ Wooden statues were usually larger than stone statues.       
○ Wooden statues were made from a single piece of wood.   
○ Wooden statues contained pieces of metal or stone attached to the front.      
○ Wooden statues had a different effect on the viewer than stone statues.   
 
 
22 
 
Paragraph 4 ：Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the 
elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three -dimensional representations 
that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population. The funct ion 
of these is quite different. Many are made to be put in the tombs of the elite in order to serve 
the tomb owners in the afterlife. Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of 
standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide ra nge of actions, such as grinding 
grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate 
poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks.  
 
11. The word depicts in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ imagines 
○ classifies 
○ elevates 
○ portrays 
 
12. According to paragraph 4, what is the difference between statues that 
represent the Egyptian elite and statues that represent the nonelite classes? 
○ Statues of the elite are included in tombs, but statues of the nonelite are not.   
○ Statues of the elite are in motionless poses, while statues of the nonelite are in active poses.  
○ Statues of the elite are shown standing, while statues of the nonelit e are shown sitting or 
kneeling       
○ Statues of the elite serve an important function, while statues of the nonelite are decorative       
 
Paragraph 4 ：Apart from statues representing deities, kings, and named members of the 
elite that can be called formal, there is another group of three -dimensional representations 
that depicts generic figures, frequently servants, from the nonelite population. ■The function 
of these is quite different. ■Many are made to be put in the tombs of the elite in order to serve 
the tomb owners in the afterlife. ■Unlike formal statues that are limited to static poses of 
standing, sitting, and kneeling, these figures depict a wide range of actions, such as grinding 
grain, baking bread, producing pots, and making music, and they are shown in appropriate 
poses, bending and squatting as they carry out their tasks. ■ 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage.  
 
In fact, it is the action and not the figure itself that is important.  
 
Where would the sentence best fit? 
      
 
23 
 
14．Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.  
 
The distinctive look of ancient Egyptian sculpture was determined largely by its function. 
●  
●  
●  
<Answer Choices> 
1. The twisted forms of Egyptian statues indicate their importance in ritual actions.  
2. The reason Egyptian statues are motionless is linked to their central role in cultural rituals. 
3. Stone, wood, and metal statues all display the feature of frontality.  
4. St atues were more often designed to be viewed in isolation rather than placed wi thin 
buildings.  
5. The contrasting poses used in statues of elite and nonelite Egyptians reveal their difference 
in social status.  
6. Although the appearances of formal and generic statues differ, they share the same function.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
Ancient Rome and Greece 
 
There is a quality of cohesiveness about the Roman world that applied neither to 
Greece nor perhaps to any other civilization, ancient or modern. Like the stone of Roman wall, 
which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that peculiarly powerful 
Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, 
monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls. The physical bonds 
included the network of military garrison s, which were stationed in every province, and the 
network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome. The organizational bonds 
were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of 
officials who enforced common standards of conduct. The psychological controls were built 
on fear and punishment—on the absolute certainty that anyone or anything that threatened the 
authority of Rome would be utterly destroyed. 
 
The source of Roman obsession with unity and cohe sion may well have lain in the 
pattern of Rome’s early development. Whereas Greece had grown from scores of scattered 
cities, Rome grew from one single organism. While the Greek world had expanded along the 
Mediterranean seas lanes, the Roman world was assembled by territorial conquest. Of course, 
the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great the Greeks had found the greatest 
territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail 
to learn the lessons of s ea power. Yet the essential difference is undeniable. The Key to the 
Greek world lay in its high-powered ships; the key to Roman power lay in its marching legions. 
The Greeks were wedded to the sea; the Romans, to the land. The Greek was a sailor at heart; 
the Roman, a landsman. 
 
Certainly, in trying to explain the Roman phenomenon, one would have to place great 
emphasis on this almost instinct for the territorial imperative. Roman priorities lay in the 
organization, exploitation, and defense of their terri tory. In all probability it was the fertile 
plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits and 
skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and a 
land-based society. From this arose the Roman genius for military organization and orderly 
government. In turn, a deep attachment to the land, and to the stability which rural life 
engenders, fostered the Roman virtues: gravitas, a sense of responsibility, pietas, a sense of 
devotion to family and country, and iustitia, a sense of the natural order. 
 
Modern attitudes to Roman civilization range from the infinitely impressed to the 
thoroughly disgusted. As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among 
historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the 
might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece. At the same time, there is a solid body of 
opinion that dislikes Rome. For many, Rome is at best the imitator and the continuator of 
 
25 
 
Greece on a larger scale. Greek civilization had quality; Rome, mere quantity. Greece was the 
inventor; Rome, the research and development division. Such indeed was the opinion of some 
of the more intellectual Romans.” had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain a s we,” asked 
Horace in his epistle, “what work of ancient date would now exist?” 
 
Rome’s debt to Greece was enormous. The Romans adopted Greek religion and moral 
philosophy. In literature, Greek writers were consciously used as models by their Latin 
successors. It was absolutely accepted that an educated Roman should be fluent in Greek. In 
speculative philosophy and the sciences, the Romans made virtually no advance on early 
achievements. 
 
Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior part ner in Greco-
Roman civilization. The Roman genius was projected into new spheres—especially into those 
of law, military organization, administration, and engineering. Moreover, the tensions that 
arose within the Roman state produced literary and artistic s ensibilities of the highest order. 
It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were writers of high 
caliber. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
 
Paragraph 1: There is a quality of cohesiveness about the Roman world that applied neither 
to Greece nor perhaps to any other civilization, ancient or modern. Like the stone of Roman 
wall, which were held together both by the regularity of the design and by that pecul iarly 
powerful Roman cement, so the various parts of the Roman realm were bonded into a massive, 
monolithic entity by physical, organizational, and psychological controls. The physical bonds 
included the network of military garrisons, which were stationed in every province, and the 
network of stone-built roads that linked the provinces with Rome. The organizational bonds 
were based on the common principles of law and administration and on the universal army of 
officials who enforced common standards of cond uct. The psychological controls were built 
on fear and punishment—on the absolute certainty that anyone or anything that threatened the 
authority of Rome would be utterly destroyed. 
 
1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential informatio n in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
o The regularity and power of stone walls inspired Romans attempting to unify the parts of 
their realm.       
o Although the Romans used different types of designs when building their walls, they used 
regular controls to maintain their realm.        
o Several types of control united the Roman realm, just as design and cement held Roman 
walls together.      
o Romans built walls to unite the various parts of their realm into a single entity, which was 
controlled by powerful laws.       
 
2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are controls that held together 
the roman world EXCEPT 
o administrative and legal systems       
o the presence of the military       
o a common language       
o transportation networks       
 
Paragraph 2: The source of Roman obsession with unity and cohesion may well have lain in 
the pattern of Rome’s early development. Whereas Greece had grown from scores of scattered 
cities, Rome grew from one single organism. While the Greek world had expanded along the 
Mediterranean seas lanes, the Roman world was assembled by territorial conquest. Of course, 
the contrast is not quite so stark: in Alexander the Great  the Greeks had found the greatest 
territorial conqueror of all time; and the Romans, once they moved outside Italy, did not fail 
to learn the lessons of sea power. Yet the essential difference is undeniable. The key to the 
Greek world lay in its high-powered ships; the key to Roman power lay in its marching legions. 
 
27 
 
The Greeks were wedded to the sea; the Romans, to the land. The Greek was a sailor at heart; 
the Roman, a landsman. 
 
3. The phrase obsession with in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o thinking about 
o fixation on 
o interest in 
o attitude toward 
 
4. According to paragraph 2, which of the following was NOT characteristic of 
Rome’s early development? 
o Expansion by sea invasion       
o Territorial expansion       
o Expansion from one original settlement        
o Expansion through invading armies   
 
5. Why does the author mention Alexander the Great in the passage? 
o To acknowledge that Greek civilization also expanded by land conquest       
o To compare Greek leaders to Roman leaders      
o To give an example of Greek leader whom Romans studied       
o To indicate the superior organization of the Greek       
 
Paragraph 3: Certainly, in trying to explain the Roman phenomenon, one would have to 
place great emphasis on this almost instinct for the territorial imperative. Roman priorities lay 
in the orga nization, exploitation, and defense of their territory. In all probability it was the 
fertile plain of Latium, where the Latins who founded Rome originated, that created the habits 
and skills of landed settlement, landed property, landed economy, landed administration, and 
a land-based society. From this arose the Roman genius for military organization and orderly 
government. In turn, a deep attachment to the land, and to the stability which rural life 
engenders, fostered the Roman virtues: gravitas, a sens e of responsibility, pietas, a sense of 
devotion to family and country, and iustitia, a sense of the natural order. 
 
6. The word fostered in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o accepted 
o combined 
o introduced 
o encouraged 
 
 
 
28 
 
7. Paragraph 3 suggests which of the following about the people of Latium? 
o Their economy was based on trade relations with other settlements.  
o They held different values than the people of Rome.       
o Agriculture played a significant role in the society.       
o They possessed unusual knowledge of animal instincts      
 
Paragraph 4: Modern attitudes to Roman civilization range from the infinitely impressed to 
the thoroughly disgusted. As always, t here are the power worshippers, especially among 
historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to the 
might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece. At the same time, there is a solid body of 
opinion that dislikes Rom e. For many, Rome is at best the imitator and the continuator of 
Greece on a larger scale. Greek civilization had quality; Rome, mere quantity. Greece was the 
inventor; Rome, the research and development division. Such indeed was the opinion of some 
of the more intellectual Romans. “Had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,” asked 
Horace in his epistle, “what work of ancient date would now exist?” 
 
8. Paragraph 4 indicates that some historians admire Roman civilization because 
of 
o the diversity of cultures within Roman society  
o its strength       
o its innovative nature       
o the large body of literature that it developed       
 
9. In paragraph 4, the author develops a description of Roman civilization by 
o comparing the opinions of Roman intellectuals to Greek intellectuals   
o identifying which characteristics of Roman civilization were copied from Greece       
o explaining how the differences between Roman and Greece developed as time passed       
o contrasting characteristics of Roman civilization with characteristics of Greek civilization       
   
10. According to paragraph 4, intellectual Romans such as Horace held which of 
the following opinions about their civilization? 
o Ancient works of Greece held little value in the Roman world.       
o The Greek civilization had been surpassed by the Romans.       
o Roman civilization produced little that was original or memorable.       
o Romans valued certain types of innovations that had been ignored by ancient Greeks.  
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
Paragraph 5: Rome’s debt to Greece was enormous. The Romans adopted Greek religion 
and moral philosophy. In literature, Greek writers were consciously used as models by their 
Latin successors. It was absolutely accepted that an educated Roman should be fluent in Greek. 
In speculative philosophy and the sciences, the Romans made virtually no advance on early 
achievements. 
      
Paragraph 6: Yet it would be wrong to suggest that Rome was somehow a junior partner in 
Greco-Roman civilization. The Roman genius was projected into new spheres—especially 
into those of law, military organization, administration, and engineering. Moreover, the 
tensions that arose within the Roman state produced literary and artistic sensibilities of the 
highest order. It was no accident that many leading Roman soldiers and statesmen were 
writers of high caliber. 
 
11. The word spheres in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o abilities 
o areas 
o combinations 
o models 
 
12. Which of the following statements about leading Roman soldiers and 
statesmen is supported by paragraphs 5 and 6? 
o They could read and write the Greek language.  
o They frequently wrote poetry and plays.       
o They focused their writing on military matters.   
o They wrote according to the philosophical laws of the Greeks.  
 
Paragraph 4: Modern attitudes to Roman civilization range from the infinitely impressed to 
the thorough disgusted. ■ As always, there are the power worshippers, especially among 
historians, who are predisposed to admire whatever is strong, who feel more attracted to t he 
might of Rome than to the subtlety of Greece. ■ At the same time, there is a solid body of 
opinion that dislikes Rome. ■ For many, Rome is at best the imitator and the continuator of 
Greece on a larger scale. ■ Greek civilization had quality; Rome, mere  quantity. Greece was 
the inventor; Rome, the research and development division. Such indeed was the opinion of 
some of the more intellectual Romans.” had the Greeks held novelty in such disdain as we,” 
asked Horace in his Epistle, “what work of ancient date would now exist?” 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
13. Look at the four squares ■ that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
They esteem symbols of Roman power, such as the massive Colosseum. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
14. Direction: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentenc es do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question worth 2 points. 
 
The Roman world drew its strength from several important sources 
●  
●  
●  
 
<Answer choices> 
1. Numerous controls imposed by Roman rulers held its territory together.  
2. The Roman military was organized differently from older military organizations.       
3. Romans valued sea power as did the Latins, the original inhabitants of Rome.       
4. Roman values were rooted in a strong attachment to the land and the stability of rural life.  
5. Rome combined aspects of ancient Greek civilization with its own con tributions in new 
areas.       
6. Educated Romans modeled their own literature and philosophy on the ancient Greeks      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 
Animal Signals in the Rain Forest 
 
The daytime quality of light in forests varies with the density of the vegetation, the 
angle of the Sun, and the amount of cloud in the sky. Both animals and plants have different 
appearances in these various lighting conditions. A color or pattern that is relatively indistinct 
in one kind of light may be quite conspicuous in another. 
 
In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal must 
be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid being 
detected by predators. An animal can hide from predators by choosing the light environment 
in which its pattern is least visible. This may require moving to different parts of the forest at 
different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be achieved by 
changing color according to the changing light conditions. Many species of amphibians (frogs 
and toads) and reptiles (lizards and snakes) are able to change their color patterns to 
camouflage themselves. Some also signal by changing color. The chameleon lizard has the 
most striking ability to do this. Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull 
appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds. By this means, they signal their level 
of aggression or readiness to mate. 
 
Other species take into account the changing conditions of  light by performing their 
visual displays only when the light is favorable. A male bird of paradise may put himself in 
the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting to attract a female. 
Certain butterflies move into spots o f sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor and 
display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights. They 
also compete with each other for the best spot of sunlight. 
 
Very little light filters through the canop y of leaves and branches in a rain forest to 
reach ground level —or close to the ground —and at those levels the yellow -to-green 
wavelengths predominate. A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright. In the 
green-to-yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would 
be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible 
if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background. The best signal 
depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background 
against which it must be seen. In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red and orange are the 
best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground-walking 
Australian brush turkey. This species, which lives in the rain forests and scrublands of the 
east coast of Australia, has a brown -to-black plumage with bare, bright -red skin on the head 
and neck and a neck collar of orange -yellow loosely han ging skin. During courtship and 
aggressive displays, the turkey enlarges its colored neck collar by inflating sacs in the neck 
region and then flings about a pendulous part of the colored signaling apparatus as it utters 
 
32 
 
calls designed to attract or repel.  This impressive display is clearly visible in the light 
spectrum illuminating the forest floor. 
 
Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on forms of 
signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances. The p iercing cries of the 
rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable calls 
of the gibbons. In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication 
over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees 
and other vegetation. In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they 
are not obstructed by trees. The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling 
simultaneously in his court ship display. The sounds made as each wing is opened carry 
extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely. The ritualized visual display 
communicates in close quarters when a female has approached. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 
 
Paragraph 1: The daytime quality of light in forests varies with the density of the vegetation, 
the angle of the Sun, and the amount of cloud in the sky. Both animals and plants have 
different appearances in these various lighting conditions. A color or pattern that is relatively 
indistinct in one kind of light may be quite conspicuous in another. 
      
1. The phrase conspicuous in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○common  
○noticeable 
○different 
○colorful 
 
Paragraph 2: In the varied and constantly changing light environment of the forest, an animal 
must be able to send visual signals to members of its own species and at the same time avoid 
being detected by predators. An animal can hide from predators by choosing the li ght 
environment in which its pattern is least visible. This may require moving to different parts 
of the forest at different times of the day or under different weather conditions, or it may be 
achieved by changing color according to the changing light con ditions. Many species of 
amphibians (frogs and toads) and reptiles (lizards and snakes) are able to change their color 
patterns to camouflage themselves. Some also signal by changing color. The chameleon lizard 
has the most striking ability to do this. Some chameleon species can change from a rather dull 
appearance to a full riot of carnival colors in seconds. By this means, they signal their level 
of aggression or readiness to mate. 
 
2. According to paragraph 2, what is problematic about an animal's sending visual 
signals to members of its own species? 
○Signs that make an animal visible to its species also make it visible to predators 
○An animal that changes color to avoid predators can confuse members of its species.   
○Changing light may require an animal to move beyond the visual range of other members.       
○The animal may mistakenly signal aggression when it meant to signal readiness to mate.   
 
3. The word signal in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○change 
○imitate 
○communicate 
○hide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
 
4. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are reasons amphibians and 
reptiles change color EXCEPT 
○changing seasons       
○to signal others of their species    
○to match the light       
○to hide from predators       
 
Paragraph 3: Other species take into account the changing conditions of light by performing 
their visual displays only when the light is favorable. A male bird of paradise may put himself 
in the limelight by displaying his spectacular plumage in the best stage setting  to attract a 
female. Certain butterflies move into spots of sunlight that have penetrated to the forest floor 
and display by opening and closing their beautifully patterned wings in the bright spotlights. 
They also compete with each other for the best spot of sunlight. 
 
5. According to paragraph 3, butterflies move into spots of sunlight in order to 
○warm their wings in order to open them       
○compete with each other       
○take advantage of favorable light conditions on the forest floor  
○imitate birds of paradise       
 
Paragraph 4: Very little light filters through the canopy of leaves and branches in a rain 
forest to reach ground level—or close to the ground—and at those levels the yellow-to-green 
wavelengths predominate. A signal might be most easily seen if it is maximally bright. In the 
green-to yellow lighting conditions of the lowest levels of the forest, yellow and green would 
be the brightest colors, but when an animal is signaling, these colors would not be very visible 
if the animal was sitting in an area with a yellowish or greenish background.  The best signal 
depends not only on its brightness but also on how well it contrasts with the background 
against which it must be seen. In this part of the rain forest, therefore, red a nd orange are the 
best colors for signaling, and they are the colors used in signals by the ground -walking 
Australian brush turkey. This species, which lives in the rain forests and scrublands of the 
east coast of Australia, has a brown to -black plumage with bare, bright-red skin on the head 
and neck and a neck collar of orange -yellow loosely hanging skin. During courtship and 
aggressive displays, the turkey enlarges its colored neck collar by inflating sacs in the neck 
region and then flings about a pendul ous part of the colored signaling apparatus as it utters 
calls designed to attract or repel. This impressive display is clearly visible in the light 
spectrum illuminating the forest floor. 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
6. According to paragraph 4, what is true about light that reaches ground level? 
○It reveals only the yellow and green colors animals use to signal each other.       
○It reflects the yellow and green colors to make the floor as bright as sunshine.       
○It camouflages animals whose natural colors are yellow and green.       
○It consists mostly of yellow-to-green wavelengths.  
 
7. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○When an animal is signaling in an area with green -to yellow lighting condition , its signal 
will not be visible if the background is brightly lit.  
○In the lowest levels of the forest, an animal's signals are not easily seen unless there is a 
yellowish or greenish background.      
○In the green-to-yellow lighting conditions at the lowest levels of the forest, only signals that 
are themselves green or yellow will be bright enough to be seen in most areas.       
○Although green and yellow would be the brightest colors near the forest floor , these colors 
would make poor signals whenever the forest background was also in the green -to-yellow 
range.       
 
8. The word inflating in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○coloring 
○enlarging 
○loosening 
○heating 
 
9. Which of the following can be in ferred from paragraph 4 about yellow and 
green colors compared with red and orange colors at the bottom of the forest? 
○Yellow and green are better colors for signaling than red and orange colors.       
○Orange and red are brighter colors than yellow and green.  
○Yellow and green are likely to be more common in the background than red and orange.       
○Orange and red colors do not contrast as well with the forest floor as yellow and green do.       
 
Paragraph 5: Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on forms 
of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances. The piercing cries of the 
rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable calls 
of the gibbons. In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of communication 
over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little impediment from trees 
and other vegetation. In forests, visual signals can be seen only at short distances, where they 
are not obstructed by trees. The male riflebird exploits both of these modes of signaling 
 
36 
 
simultaneously in his courtship display. The sounds made as each wing is opened carry 
extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely. The ritualized visual display 
communicates in close quarters when a female has approached. 
 
10. What can be inferred from paragraph 5 about the less colorful birds and 
animals that inhabit the forest? 
○These species are less able to see color. and therefore they communicate with one another 
using nonvisual signals.      
○These species generally live in less densely wooded environments than more colorful birds 
and animals do.       
○The cries of these species do not carry as well over distances a s the cries of more colorful 
birds and animals.       
○These species depend more on nonvisual signals for communication because they are less 
visible in their environment.  
 
11. The word impediment in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○obstruction 
○effort 
○delay 
○resistance 
 
12. The word exploits in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○repeats 
○makes use of 
○increases the intensity of  
○recognizes 
 
Paragraph 5: Less colorful birds and animals that inhabit the rain forest tend to rely on forms 
of signaling other than the visual, particularly over long distances. ■ The piercing cries of 
the rhinoceros hornbill characterize the Southeast Asian rain forest, as do the unmistakable 
calls of the gibbons. ■ In densely wooded environments, sound is the best means of 
communication over distance because in comparison with light, it travels with little 
impediment from trees and other vegetation. ■ In forests, visual signals can be seen only at 
short distances, where they are not obstructed by trees. ■ The male riflebird exploits both of 
these modes of signaling simultaneously in his courtship display. The sounds made as each 
wing is opened carry extremely well over distance and advertise his presence widely. The 
ritualized visual display communicates in close quarters when a female has approached. 
 
 
 
37 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
There is also the long, rather terrifying call of the male orangutan, which carries over 
considerable distances to advertise his presence. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
In the rain forest, an animal must be able to send signals to members of its own species 
and at the same time avoid being detected by predators. 
● 
● 
● 
<Answer Choices> 
1.Animals that have different predators at different times of da y change color to avoid being 
detected.       
2.To escape notice, an animal may move or change color so that its color pattern is not visible.       
3.To be noticed, an animal may draw attention to the contrast between its colors and the colors 
of its environment.       
4.Yellow and green are the most common colors found in the rain forest.       
5.Animals must have signals for aggression as well as to indicate readiness to mate.       
6.An animal may use sound rather than color to attract attention, because sound signals are 
not hindered by       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
수고하셨습니다. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
지문당 제한시간을 18 분을 엄수해주세요. 
(목표점수가 높을수록 18 분, 아닐수록 20 분) 
본 문제는 반드시 지면이 아닌, 컴퓨터 화면으로 풀어야 합니다. 
지문당 최대 2 장의 A4 용지를 사용하실 수 있습니다. 
지문은 총 5 개입니다.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
ARCHITECTURE  
 
Architecture is the art and science of designing structures that organize and enclose 
space for practical and symbolic purposes. Because architecture grows out of human needs 
and aspirations, it clearly communicates cultural values. Of all the visual arts, architecture 
affects our li ves most directly for it determines the character of the human environment in 
major ways. 
 
Architecture is a three -dimensional form. It utilizes space, mass, texture, line, light, 
and color. To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety of 
elements. Humans instinctively seek structures that will shelter and enhance their way of life. 
It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also offer 
inspiration and delight. Buildings contribute to human life when they provide shelter, enrich 
space, complement their site, suit the climate, and are economically feasible. The client who 
pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural 
team. The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and 
architects. 
 
In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet its purpose, 
architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on ph ysical laws, have 
changed little since people first discovered them-even while building materials have changed 
dramatically. The world’s architectural structures have also been devised in relation to the 
objective limitations of materials. Structures can b e analyzed in terms of how they deal with 
downward forces created by gravity. They are designed to withstand the forces of 
compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these 
in different parts of the structure. 
 
Every development in architecture has been the result of major technological changes. 
Materials and methods of construction are integral parts of the design of architecture 
structures. In earlier times it was necessary to design structural systems suitable fo r the 
materials that were available, such as wood, stone, brick. Today technology has progressed 
to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure 
desired. Enormous changes in materials and techniques of const ruction within the last few 
generations have made it possible to enclose space with much greater ease and speed and with 
a minimum of material. Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight 
between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred ago. 
 
Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components comparable to 
elements of the human body; a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin enclosing the 
interior spaces, equipment, similar to the body’s v ital organs and systems. The equipment 
 
2 
 
includes plumbing, electrical wiring, hot water, and air -conditioning. Of course in early 
architecture—such as igloos and adobe structures —there was no such equipment, and the 
skeleton and skin were often one. 
 
Much of the world’s great architecture has been constructed of stone because of its 
beauty, permanence, and availability. In the past, whole cities grew from the arduous task of 
cutting and piling stone upon. Some of the world’s finest stone architecture can be seen in the 
ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains of Peru. 
The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick stone 
beams that support the weight from above. A structural invention had to be made before the 
physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be created. 
That invention was the arch, a curved structure originally made of separate stone or brick 
segments. The arch was used by the early cult ures of the Mediterranean area chiefly for 
underground drains, but it was the Romans who first developed and used the arch extensively 
in aboveground structures. Roman builders perfected the semicircular arch made of separate 
blocks of stone. As a method o f spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a 
horizontal beam. It works in compression to divert the weight above it out to the sides, where 
the weight is borne by the vertical elements on either side of the arch. The arch is among the 
many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the 
centuries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Paragraph 1：Architecture is the art and science of designing structures that organize and 
enclose space for practical and symbolic purposes. Because architecture grows out of human 
needs and aspirations, it clearly communicates cultural values. Of all the visual arts, 
architecture affects our lives most directly for it determines the character of the human 
environment in major ways. 
 
1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following statements about architecture 
are true EXCEPT: 
o Architecture is visual art.       
o Architecture reflects the cultural values of its creators.  
o Architecture has both artistic and scientific dimensions.  
o Architecture has an indirect effect on life. - 
 
Paragraph 2：Architecture is a three-dimensional form. It utilizes space, mass, texture, line, 
light, and color. To be architecture, a building must achieve a working harmony with a variety 
of elements. Humans instinctively seek structures that will shelter and enhance  their way of 
life. It is the work of architects to create buildings that are not simply constructions but also 
offer inspiration and delight. Buildings contribute to human life when they provide shelter, 
enrich space, complement their site, suit the climate, and are economically feasible. The client 
who pays for the building and defines its function is an important member of the architectural 
team. The mediocre design of many contemporary buildings can be traced to both clients and 
architects. 
      
2.The word feasible in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o in existence 
o without question 
o achievable 
o most likely 
 
Paragraph 3：In order for the structure to achieve the size and strength necessary to meet 
its purpose, architecture employs methods of support that, because they are based on physical 
laws, have changed little since people first discovered them -even while building materials 
have changed dramatically.  The world’s architectural structures have also been devised in 
relation to the objective limitations of materials. Structures can be analyzed in terms of how 
they deal with downward forces created by gravity. They are designed to withstand the forces 
of compression (pushing together), tension (pulling apart), bending, or a combination of these 
in different parts of the structure. 
 
 
 
4 
 
3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
o Unchanging physical laws have limited the size and strength of buildings that can be made 
with materials discovered long ago.  
o Building materials have changed in order to increase architectural size and strength, but 
physical laws of structure have not changed.  
o When people first started to build, the structural methods used to provide strength and size 
were inadequate because they were not based on physical laws.  
o Unlike building materials, the methods of support used in architecture have not changed 
over time because they are based on physical laws.  
 
4. The word devised in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o combined  
o created 
o introduced  
o suggested 
 
Paragraph 4：Every development in architecture has been the result of major technological 
changes. Materials and methods of construction are integral parts of the design of architecture 
structures. In earlier times it was necessary to design structural systems suitable for the 
materials that were available, such as wood, stone, brick. Today technology has progressed 
to the point where it is possible to invent new building materials to suit the type of structure 
desired. Enormous changes in materials and techniques of constru ction within the last few 
generations have made it possible to enclose space with much greater ease and speed and with 
a minimum of material. Progress in this area can be measured by the difference in weight 
between buildings built now and those of comparable size built one hundred ago. 
 
5. The word integral is closest in meaning to  
o essential  
o variable  
o practical 
o independent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
6. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true about materials used 
in the construction of buildings? 
o Because new building materials are hard to find, construction techniques have changed very 
little from past generations.  
o The availability of suitable building materials no longer limits the types of structures that 
may be built.  
o The primary building materials that are available today are wood, stone, and brick.  
o Architects in earlier times did not have enough building materials to enclose large spaces.  
 
7. In paragraph 4, what does the author imply about modern buildings? 
o They occupy much less space than buildings constructed one hundred years ago.  
o They are not very different from the building of a few generations ago.  
o They weigh less in relation to their size than buildings constructed one hundred years ago.  
o They take a long time to build as a result of their complex construction methods.  
 
Paragraph 5:  Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components 
comparable to elements of the human body; a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin 
enclosing the interior spaces, equipment, similar to the body’s vital organs and system s. The 
equipment includes plumbing, electrical wiring, hot water, and air-conditioning. Of course in 
early architecture—such as igloos and adobe structures —there was no such equipment, and 
the skeleton and skin were often one. 
      
8. Which of the following correctly characterizes the relationship between the 
human body and architecture that is described in paragraph5? 
o Complex equipment inside buildings is the one element in modern architecture that 
resembles a component of the human body.  
o The components in early buildings were similar to three particular elements of the human 
body.  
o Modern buildings have components that are as likely to change as the human body is.  
o In general, modern buildings more closely resemble the human body than earl ier buildings 
do.  
 
Paragraph 6: Much of the world’s great architecture has been constructed of stone because 
of its beauty, permanence, and availability. In the past, whole cities grew from the arduous 
task of cutting and piling stone upon. Some of the wo rld’s finest stone architecture can be 
seen in the ruins of the ancient Inca city of Machu Picchu high in the eastern Andes Mountains 
of Peru. The doorways and windows are made possible by placing over the open spaces thick 
stone beams that support the weight from above. A structural invention had to be made before 
the physical limitations of stone could be overcome and new architectural forms could be 
 
6 
 
created. That invention was the arch, a curved structure originally made of separate stone or 
brick segments. The arch was used by the early cultures of the Mediterranean area chiefly for 
underground drains, but it was the Romans who first developed and used the arch extensively 
in aboveground structures. Roman builders perfected the semicircular arch made of separate 
blocks of stone. As a method of spanning space, the arch can support greater weight than a 
horizontal beam. It works in compression to divert the weight above it out to the sides, where 
the weight is borne by the vertical elements on either side o f the arch. The arch is among the 
many important structural breakthroughs that have characterized architecture throughout the 
centuries. 
 
9. The word arduous in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o difficult 
o necessary  
o skilled 
o shared 
 
10. Why does the author include a description of how the “ doorways and 
windows” of Machu Picchu were constructed? 
o To indicate that the combined skeletons and skins of the stone buildings of Machu Picchu 
were similar to igloos and adobe structures  
o To indicate the different kinds of stones that had to be cut to build Machu Picchu  
o To provide an illustration of the kind of construction that was required before arches were 
invented  
o To explain how ancient builders reduced the amount of time necessary to construct buildings 
from stone.  
 
11．According to paragraph 6, which of the following statements is true of the 
arch? 
o The Romans were the first people to use the stone arch.  
o The invention of the arch allowed new architectural forms to be developed.  
o The arch worked by distributing the structural load of a building toward the center of the 
arch.  
o The Romans followed earlier practices in their use of arches.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
Paragraph 5 ：■ Modern architectural forms generally have three separate components 
comparable to elements of the human body; a supporting skeleton or frame, an outer skin 
enclosing the interior spaces, equipment, similar to the body’s vital organs and sys tems. ■ 
The equipment includes plumbing, electrical wiring, hot water, and air -conditioning. ■ Of 
course in early architecture —such as igloos and adobe structures —there was no such 
equipment, and the skeleton and skin were often one. ■ 
 
12．Look at the four  squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence 
could be added to the passage. 
 
However, some modern architectural designs, such as those using folded plates of 
concrete or air-inflated structures, are again unifying skeleton and skin. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage. 
 
13．Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
Architecture uses forms and space to express cultural values. 
● 
● 
● 
<Answer choices> 
A. Architects seek to create buildings that are both visually appealing and well suited for 
human use.  
B. Over the course of the history of building, innovations in material and methods of 
construction have given architects ever greater freedom to express themselves.  
C. Throughout history buildings have been constructed like human bodies, needing distinct 
“organ” systems in order to function.  
D. Both clients and architects are responsible for the mediocre designs of some modern 
buildings.  
E. Modern buildings tend to lack the beauty of ancient stone buildings such as those of Machu 
Picchu.  
F. The discovery and use of the arch typifies the way in which architecture advances by 
developing more efficient types of structures.  
 
8 
 
Begging by Nestlings 
 
Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that are overly 
damaging. A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent returns 
to the nest with food. These loud cheeps and peeps might give the location of the nest away 
to a listening hawk or raccoon, resulting in the death of the defenseless nestlings. In fact, 
when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing an 
egg, the egg in that “noisy” nest was taken or destroyed  by predators before the egg in a 
nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials. 
 
Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences in the 
begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the relative 
safety of trees. The young of ground -nesting warblers produce begging cheeps of higher 
frequencies than do their tree-nesting relatives. These higher-frequency sounds do not travel 
as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially 
vulnerable to predators in their ground nests. David Haskell created artificial nests with clay 
eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of 
either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers. The eggs “advertised” by the tree -nesters' 
begging calls were found bitten significantly more often than the eggs associated with the 
ground-nesters' calls. 
 
The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their potential 
for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience high rates 
of nest predation should produce softer begging signals of higher frequency than nestlings of 
other species less often victimized by nest predators. This prediction was sup ported by data 
collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more evidence that predator 
pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect and pinpoint. 
 
Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what ben efit do begging 
nestlings derive from their communications? One possibility is that a noisy baby bird 
provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for the 
listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available 
to be fed. If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity 
of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for 
parental attention. When experi mentally deprived baby robins are placed in a nest with 
normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual —but so do their 
better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds. 
 
If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable of 
vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their 
 
9 
 
offsprings calls. Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour  feeding half 
the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved 
youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars 
more than those who beg less vigorously. 
 
As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that parents 
use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding. But the 
question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry? By doing so, 
they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger size, 
either of which is advantageous. The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy costs 
of exaggerated begging —such energy costs are small relative to the potential  gain in 
calories— but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which 
share genes with one another. An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be 
affected by more than just his or her own personal reproduc tive success. Because close 
relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect 
be destroying some of their own genes. Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the 
expense of its siblings might actually le ave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it 
might otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
Paragraph 1：Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that 
are overly damaging. A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a parent 
returns to the nest with food. These loud cheeps and peeps might give the location of the nest 
away to a listening hawk or raccoon, result ing in the death of the defenseless nestlings. In 
fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow nest containing 
an egg, the egg in that “noisy” nest was taken or destroyed by predators before the egg in a 
nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials. 
 
1. The phrase impose on in the passage is closest in meaning to 
 o increase for 
 o remove from 
 o place on 
 o distribute to 
 
2. According to paragraph 1, the experiment with tapes of begging tree swallows 
establishes which of the following? 
o Begging by nestling birds can attract the attention of predators to the nest.  
o Nest predators attack nests that contain nestlings more frequently than they attack nests 
that contain only eggs       
o Tapes of begging nestlings attract pred ators to the nest less frequently than real begging 
calls do.      
o Nest predators have no other means of locating bird nests except the begging calls of 
nestling birds.  
 
Paragraph 2：Further evidence for the costs of begging comes from a study of differences 
in the begging calls of warbler species that nest on the ground versus those that nest in the 
relative safety of trees. The young of ground -nesting warblers produce begging cheeps of 
higher frequencies than do their tree-nesting relatives. These higher-frequency sounds do not 
travel as far, and so may better conceal the individuals producing them, who are especially 
vulnerable to predators in their ground nests. David Haskell created artificial nests with clay 
eggs and placed them on the ground beside a tape recorder that played the begging calls of 
either tree-nesting or of ground-nesting warblers. The eggs “advertised” by the tree -nesters' 
begging calls were found bitten significan tly more often than the eggs associated with the 
ground-nesters' calls. 
 
3. The word artificial in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o attractive 
o not real 
o short-term 
o well designed 
 
11 
 
4. Paragraph 2 indicates that the begging calls of tree nesting warblers 
o put them at more risk than ground-nesting warblers experience       
o can be heard from a greater distance than those of ground-nesting warblers       
o are more likely to conceal the signaler than those of ground-nesting warblers       
o have higher frequencies than those of ground nesting warblers  
 
5. The experiment described in paragraph 2 supports which of the following 
conclusions? 
o Predators are unable to distinguish between the begging cheeps of ground-nesting and those 
of tree-nesting warblers except by the differing frequencies of the calls.      
o When they can find them, predators prefer the eggs of tree -nesting warblers to those of 
ground-nesting warblers.       
o The higher frequencies of the begging cheeps of ground-nesting warblers are an adaptation 
to the threat that ground-nesting birds face from predators       
o The danger of begging depends more on the frequency of the begging cheep than on how 
loud it is.       
 
Paragraph 3：The hypothesis that begging calls have evolved properties that reduce their 
potential for attracting predators yields a prediction: baby birds of species that experience 
high rates of nest predation should produce softer begging signal s of higher frequency than 
nestlings of other species less often victimized by nest predators. This prediction was 
supported by data collected in one survey of 24 species from an Arizona forest, more 
evidence that predator pressure favors the evolution of begging calls that are hard to detect 
and pinpoint. 
 
6. The word prediction in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o surprise 
o discovery 
o explanation 
o expectation 
 
7. The word pinpoint in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o observe 
o locate exactly 
o copy accurately 
o recognize 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Paragraph 4 ：Given that predators can make it costly to beg for food, what benefit do 
begging nestlings derive from their communications? One possibility is that a noisy baby 
bird provides accurate signals of its real hunger and good health, making it worthwhile for 
the listening parent to give it food in a nest where several other offspring are usually available 
to be fed. If this hypothesis is true, then it follows that nestlings should adjust the intensity 
of their signals in relation to the signals produced by their nestmates, who are competing for 
parental attention. When experimentally deprived baby robins ar e placed in a nest with 
normally fed siblings, the hungry nestlings beg more loudly than usual —but so do their 
better-fed siblings, though not as loudly as the hungrier birds.  
 
8. The word derive in the passage is closest in meaning to 
o require 
o gain 
o use 
o produce 
 
Paragraph 5：If parent birds use begging intensity to direct food to healthy offspring capable 
of vigorous begging, then parents should make food delivery decisions on the basis of their 
offsprings calls. Indeed, if you take baby tree swallows out of a nest for an hour feeding half 
the set and starving the other half, when the birds are replaced in the nest, the starved 
youngsters beg more loudly than the fed birds, and the parent birds feed the active beggars 
more than those who beg less vigorously. 
      
9. In paragraphs 4 and 5, what evidence supports the claim that the intensity of 
nestling begging calls is a good indicator of which offspring in a nest would most 
benefit from a feeding? 
o When placed in a nest with hungry robins, well-fed robins did not beg for food.      
o Among robin nestlings, the intensity of begging decreased the more the nestlings were fed.       
o Hungry tree swallow nestlings begged louder than well-fed nestlings in the same nest.       
o Hungry tree swallow nestlings continued to beg loudly until they were fed whereas well -
fed nestlings soon stopped begging.       
 
10. It can be inferred from paragraphs 4 and 5 that parent songbirds normally do 
not feed 
o nestlings that are too weak to beg for food as vigorously as their nestmates      
o more than one hungry nestling during a single visit to the nest       
o offspring that were fed by the parents on the previous visit to the nest       
o nestlings that have been removed and then later put back into their nest 
 
 
13 
 
Paragraph 6：As these experiments show, begging apparently provides a signal of need that 
parents use to make judgments about which offspring can benefit most from a feeding. But 
the question arises, why don't nestlings beg loudly when they aren't all that hungry? By doing 
so, they could possibly secure more food, which should result in more rapid growth or larger 
size, either of which is advantageous. The answer lies apparently not in the increased energy 
costs of exaggerated begging —such energy costs are small relative to the potential gain in 
calories— but rather in the damage that any successful cheater would do to its siblings, which 
share genes with one another. An individual's success in propagating his or her genes can be 
affected by more than just his or her own personal reproductive success. Because close 
relatives have many of the same genes, animals that harm their close relatives may in effect 
be destroying some of their own genes. Therefore, a begging nestling that secures food at the 
expense of its siblings might actually leave behind fewer copies of its genes overall than it 
might otherwise. 
 
11. In paragraph 6, the author compares the energy costs of vigorous begging 
with the potential gain in calories from such begging in order to 
o explain why begging for food vigorously can lead to faster growth and increased size.       
o explain how begging vigorously can increase an individual’s chance of propagating its own 
genes  
o point out a weakness in a possible explanation for why nestlings do not always beg 
vigorously  
o argue that the benefits of vigorous begging outweigh any possible disadvantages  
 
12. According to paragraph 6, which of the following explains the fact that a 
well-fed nestling does not beg loudly for more food? 
o There is no benefit for a nestling to get more food than it needs to survive.   
o By begging loudly for food it does not need, a nestling would unnecessarily expose itself 
to danger from predators.       
o If a nestling begs loudly when it is not truly hungry, then when it is truly hungry its own 
begging may be drowned out by that of its well-fed siblings.  
o More of a nestling's genes will be passed to the next generation if its hungry siblings get 
enough food to survive. 
 
Paragraph 1：Many signals that animals make seem to impose on the signalers costs that 
are overly damaging. ■ A classic example is noisy begging by nestling songbirds when a 
parent returns to the nest with food. ■ These loud cheeps and peeps might give the location 
of the nest away to a listening hawk or raccoon, resulting in the death of the defenseless 
nestlings.■ In fact, when tapes of begging tree swallows were played at an artificial swallow 
nest containing an egg, the egg in that “noisy” nest was taken or destroye d by predators 
 
14 
 
before the egg in a nearby quiet nest in 29 of 37 trials.■ 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage.  
 
The cheeping provides important information to the parent, but it could also attract the 
attention of others. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer that 
express the most important id eas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong 
in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or 
are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.  
 
Experiments have shed much light on the begging behaviors of baby songbirds 
●  
●  
●  
A. Songbird species that are especially vulnerable to predators have evolved ways of reducing 
the dangers associated with begging calls.       
B. Songbird parents focus their feeding effort on the nestlings that beg loudest for food.       
C. It is genetically disadvantageous for nestlings to behave as if they are really hungry when 
they are not really hungry.       
D. The begging calls of songbird nestlings provide a good example of overly damaging cost 
to signalers of signaling.       
E. The success with which songbird nestlings communicate their hunger to their parents is 
dependent on the frequencies of the nestlings' begging calls.       
F. Songbird nestlings have evolved several different ways to communicate the intensity of 
their hunger to their parents.       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Biological Clocks 
 
Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals to be 
coordinated with predictable events around them. Consequently, the timing and rhythms of 
biological functions must closely match periodic events like the solar day, the tides, the lunar 
cycle, and the seasons. The relations between animal activity and these periods, particularly 
for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a huge amount of work 
has been done on them and the special research field of  chronobiology has emerged. 
Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity—sleeping, feeding, moving, 
reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for example —are well 
coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether the animal's 
schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead dependent 
somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological rhythms. 
Almost universally, biologists accept the idea tha t all eukaryotes (a category that includes 
most organisms except bacteria and certain algae) have internal clocks. By isolating 
organisms completely from external periodic cues, biologists learned that organisms have 
internal clocks. For instance, apparent ly normal daily periods of biological activity were 
maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated 
from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle. The continuation of 
biological rhythms in an organism without external cues attests to its having an internal clock. 
 
When crayfish are kept continuously in the dark, even for four to five months, their 
compound eyes continue to adjust on a daily schedule for daytime and nighttime vision. 
Horseshoe crabs kept in the dark continuously for a year were found to maintain a persistent 
rhythm of brain activity that similarly adapts their eyes on a daily schedule for bright or for 
weak light. Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cue s, those 
measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours. Such a 
rhythm whose period is approximately —but not exactly —a day is called circadian. For 
different individual horseshoe crabs, the circadian period ranged from 22.2 to 25.5 hours. A 
particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great 
precision for many days. Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major 
features, even when the organism's environment is subjec ted to considerable changes in 
factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly. 
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are 
shifted—either experimentally or by rapi d east-west travel over great distances. Typically, 
the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change. As a result, 
its activities are shifted relative to the external cycle of the new environment. The 
disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may 
persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the 
daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of 
 
17 
 
the new environment. 
 
Animals need natural periodic signals like sunrise to maintain a cycle whose period is 
precisely 24 hours. Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily rhythms with 
particular features of the local solar day but also—because it normally does so day after day-
seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation. Yet despite this 
synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself continues to have 
its own genetically built-in period close to, but different from, 24 hours. Without the external 
cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities of the biological day 
drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day. This drift has been studied 
extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the hatching of fruit fly 
eggs to wheel running by squirrels. Light has a predominating influence in setting the clock. 
Even a fifteen -minute burst of light in otherwise sustained darkness can reset an animal's 
circadian rhythm. Normally, internal rhythms are kept in step by regular environmental 
cycles. For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, its clock must 
be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Paragraph 1：Survival and successful reproduction usually require the activities of animals 
to be coordinated with predictable events around them. Consequently, the timing and 
rhythms of biological functions must closely match periodic events like the solar day, the 
tides, the lunar cycle, and the seasons. The relations between animal activity and these 
periods, particularly for the daily rhythms, have been of such interest and importance that a 
huge amount of work has been done on them and the special research field of chronobiology 
has emerged. Normally, the constantly changing levels of an animal's activity —sleeping, 
feeding, moving, reproducing, metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones, for 
example—are well coordinated with environmental rhythms, but the key question is whether 
the animal's schedule is driven by external cues, such as sunrise or sunset, or is instead 
dependent somehow on internal timers that themselves generate the observed biological 
rhythms. Almost universally, biologists accept the idea tha t all eukaryotes (a category that 
includes most organisms except bacteria and certain algae) have internal clocks. By isolating 
organisms completely from external periodic cues, biologists learned that organisms have 
internal clocks. For instance, apparent ly normal daily periods of biological activity were 
maintained for about a week by the fungus Neurospora when it was intentionally isolated 
from all geophysical timing cues while orbiting in a space shuttle. The continuation of 
biological rhythms in an organism without external cues attests to its having an internal clock. 
 
1. The word Consequently in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ Therefore 
○ Additionally 
○ Nevertheless 
○ Moreover 
 
2. In paragraph 1, the experiment on the fungus Neurospora is mentioned to 
illustrate 
○ the existence of weekly periods of activity as well as daily ones       
○ the finding of evidence that organisms have internal clocks       
○ the effect of space on the internal clocks of organisms       
○ the isolation of one part of an organism's cycle for study       
 
3. According to paragraph 1, all the following are generally assumed to be true 
EXCEPT: 
○ It is important for animals' dai ly activities to be coordinated with recurring events in their 
environment.      
○ Eukaryotes have internal clocks.       
○ The relationship between biological function and environmental cycles is a topic of intense 
research.      
 
19 
 
○ Animals' daily rhythms are more dependent on external cues than on internal clocks. 
 
Paragraph 2：When crayfish are kept continuously in the dark, even for four to five months, 
their compound eyes continue to adjust on a daily schedule for daytime and nighttime vision. 
Horseshoe crabs kept in the dark continuously for a year were found to maintain a persistent 
rhythm of brain activity that similarly adapts their eyes on a daily schedule for bright or for 
weak light. Like almost all daily cycles of animals deprived of environmental cues, those 
measured for the horseshoe crabs in these conditions were not exactly 24 hours. Such a 
rhythm whose period is approximately —but not exactly —a day is called circadian. For 
different individual horseshoe crabs, the circadian period ranged from 22.2 to 25.5 hours. A 
particular animal typically maintains its own characteristic cycle duration with great 
precision for many days. Indeed, stability of the biological clock's period is one of its major 
features, even when the organism's e nvironment is subjected to considerable changes in 
factors, such as temperature, that would be expected to affect biological activity strongly.  
Further evidence for persistent internal rhythms appears when the usual external cycles are 
shifted—either experimentally or by rapid east -west travel over great distances. Typically, 
the animal's daily internally generated cycle of activity continues without change. As a result, 
its ac tivities are shifted relative to the external cycle of the new environment. The 
disorienting effects of this mismatch between external time cues and internal schedules may 
persist, like our jet lag, for several days or weeks until certain cues such as the  
daylight/darkness cycle reset the organism's clock to synchronize with the daily rhythm of 
the new environment. 
 
4. The word persistent in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ adjusted 
○ strong 
○ enduring 
○ predicted 
 
5. Which of the sentences below best  expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○ Stability, a feature of the biological clock's period, depends on changeable factors such as 
temperature.  
○ A major feature of the biological clock is that its period does not change despite significant 
changes in the environment.       
○ A factor such as temperature is an important feature in the establishment of t he biological 
clock's period.       
○ Biological activity is not strongly affected by changes in temperature.  
 
 
20 
 
6. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about the circadian 
periods of animals deprived of environmental cues? 
○ They have the same length as the daily activity cycles of animals that are not deprived of 
such cues.       
○ They can vary significantly from day to day.       
○ They are not the same for all members of a single species.       
○ They become longer over time.       
 
7. According to paragraph 2, what will an animal experience when its internal 
rhythms no longer correspond with the daily cycle of the environment? 
○ Disorientation       
○ Change in period of the internal rhythms       
○ Reversal of day and night activities increased       
○ Sensitivity to environmental factors       
 
8. In paragraph 2, the author provides evidence for the role of biological clocks 
by 
○ listing the daily activities of an animal's cycle: sleeping, feeding, moving, reproducing, 
metabolizing, and producing enzymes and hormones       
○ describing the process of establishing the period of a biological clock       
○ presenting cases in which an animal' s daily schedule remained stable despite lack of 
environmental cues       
○ contrasting animals whose daily schedules fluctuate with those of animals whose schedules 
are constant  
 
9. The word duration in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ length 
○ feature 
○ process 
○ repetition 
 
10. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention that the period for different 
horseshoe crabs ranges from 22.2 to 25.5 hours? 
○ To illustrate that an animal's internal clock seldom has a 24-hour cycle       
○ To argue that different horseshoe crabs will shift from daytime to nighttime vision at 
different times  
○ To illustrate the approximate range of the circadian rhythm of all animals       
○ To support the idea that external cues are the only factors affecting an animal's periodic 
behavior   
 
21 
 
Paragraph 3：Animals need natural periodic signals like sunrise to maintain a cycle whose 
period is precisely 24 hours. Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily 
rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also  - because it normally does so 
day after day - seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation. Yet 
despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself 
continues to have its own genetically built -in period close to, but different from, 24 hours. 
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities 
of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day. This drift 
has been studied  extensively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the 
hatchling of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels. Light has a predominating influence 
in setting the clock. Even a fifteen -minute burst of light in otherwise sustained darkness can 
reset an animal's circadian rhythm. Normally, internal rhythms are kept in step by regular 
environmental cycles. For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, 
its clock must be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle. 
 
11. The word it in the passage refers to 
○ an external cue such as sunrise       
○ the daily rhythm of an animal  
○ the local solar day  
○ a cycle whose period is precisely 24 hours 
 
12. The word sustained in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○ intense 
○ uninterrupted 
○ natural 
○ periodic 
 
Paragraph 3：Animals need natural periodic signals like sunrise to maintain a cycle whose 
period is precisely 24 hours. ■ Such an external cue not only coordinates an animal's daily 
rhythms with particular features of the local solar day but also —because it normally does so 
day after day - seems to keep the internal clock's period close to that of Earth's rotation. ■ Yet 
despite this synchronization of the period of the internal cycle, the animal's timer itself 
continues to have its own genetically built -in period close to, but different from, 24 hours. ■ 
Without the external cue, the difference accumulates and so the internally regulated activities 
of the biological day drift continuously, like the tides, in relation to the solar day. ■This drift 
has been studied extens ively in many animals and in biological activities ranging from the 
hatching of fruit fly eggs to wheel running by squirrels. Light has a predominating influence 
in setting the clock. Even a fifteen -minute burst of light in otherwise sustained darkness can  
reset an animal's circadian rhythm. Normally, internal rhythms are kept in step by regular 
environmental cycles. For instance, if a homing pigeon is to navigate with its Sun compass, 
 
22 
 
its clock must be properly set by cues provided by the daylight/darkness cycle 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
Because the internal signals that regulate waking and going to sleep tend to align 
themselves with these external cues, the external clock appears to dominate the internal 
clock.  
      
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. 
 
The activity of animals is us ually coordinated with periodically recurring events in the 
environment. 
●  
●  
●  
<Answer Choices> 
1.Most animals survive and reproduce successfully without coordinating their activities to 
external environmental rhythms.  
2.The circadian period of an animal's internal clock is genetically determined and basically 
unchangeable.       
3.Environmental cues such as a change in temperature are enough to reset an animal's clock.  
4.Animals have internal clocks that influence their activities even when environmental cues 
are absent.       
5.Animals are less affected by large differences between their internal rhythms and the local 
solar day than are humans       
6.Because an animal's internal clock does not operate on a 24 -hour cycle, environmental 
stimuli are needed to keep the biological day aligned with the solar day.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
Cave Art in Europe 
The earliest discovered traces of art are beads and carvings, and then paintings, from 
sites dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period. We might expect that early artistic efforts 
would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a  marked degree 
of skill. So do the naturalistic paintings on slabs of stone excavated in southern Africa. Some 
of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests that 
painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe. B ut painting may be even older than that. 
The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at least 
30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago.  
 
The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified thr ee principal locations 
of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters and cave 
entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in the inner 
reaches of caves, whose difficulty of acces s has been interpreted by some as a sign that 
magical-religious activities were performed there.  
 
The subjects of the paintings are mostly animals. The paintings rest on bare walls, with 
no backdrops or environmental trappings. Perhaps, like many contempo rary peoples, Upper 
Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could cause death or 
injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures are rarely 
depicted in cave art. Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that these people 
sought to improve their luck at hunting. This theory is suggested by evidence of chips in the 
painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings. But if improving their 
hunting luck was the chief motivati on for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only a 
few show signs of having been speared. Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to 
increase the supply of animals. Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the 
Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing.  
 
The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern France is 
more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers Patricia 
Rice and Ann Paterson. The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in the cave 
paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials such as 
hides. For example, wild cattle (bovines) and horses are portrayed more often than we would 
expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than other animals 
in the environment. In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the painters may 
have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such  as tusks and horns, 
and the unpredictability of their behavior. That is, mammoths, bovines, and horses are 
portrayed more often than deer and reindeer. Thus, the paintings are consistent with the idea 
that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic people. 
Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the cultural 
 
24 
 
period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their food. 
But in that period, w hen getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals 
(because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals.  
 
Upper Paleolithic art was not confined to cave paintings. Many shafts of spears and 
similar objects were decorated with figures of animals. The anthropologist Alexander 
Marshack has an interesting interpretation of some of the engravings made during the Upper 
Paleolithic. He believes that as far back as 30.000 B.C., hunters may have used a system of 
notation, engraved on bone and stone, to mark phases of the Moon. If this is true, it would 
mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and were consciously 
aware of their environment. In addition to other artworks, figurines representin g the human 
female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites. It has been 
suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
Paragraph 1: The earliest discovered traces of art are beads and carvings, and then paintings, 
from sites dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period. We might expect that early artistic 
efforts would be crude, but the cave paintings of Spain and southern France show a marked 
degree of skill. So do the naturalistic paintings on slabs of stone excavated in southern Africa. 
Some of those slabs appear to have been painted as much as 28,000 years ago, which suggests 
that painting in Africa is as old as painting in Europe. But painting may be even older than 
that. The early Australians may have painted on the walls of rock shelters and cliff faces at 
least 30,000 years ago, and maybe as much as 60,000 years ago.  
 
1. The word marked in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o considerable  
o surprising  
o limited  
o adequate  
 
2. Paragraph 1 supports which of the following statements about painting in 
Europe?  
o It is much older than painting in Australia.  
o It is as much as 28,000 years old.  
o It is not as old as painting in southern Africa.  
o It is much more than 30,000 years old.  
 
Paragraph 2: The researchers Peter Ucko and Andree Rosenfeld identified three principal 
locations of paintings in the caves of western Europe: (1) in obviously inhabited rock shelters 
and cave entrances; (2) in galleries immediately off the inhabited areas of caves; and (3) in 
the inner reaches of caves, whose difficulty of access has been i nterpreted by some as a sign 
that magical-religious activities were performed there.  
 
3. The word principal in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o major  
o likely  
o well protected  
o distinct  
 
4. According to paragraph 2, what makes some researchers think that certain cave 
paintings were connected with magical-religious activities?  
o The paintings were located where many people could easily see them, allowing groups of 
people to participate in the magical-religious activities.       
o Upper Paleolithic people shared similar beliefs with contemporary peoples who use 
 
26 
 
paintings of animals in their magical-religious rituals.  
o Evidence of magical -religious activities has been found in galleries i mmediately off the 
inhabited areas of caves.  
o The paintings were found in hard-to-reach places away from the inhabited parts of the cave.  
 
Paragraph 3: The subjects of the paintings are mostly animals. The paintings rest on bare 
walls, with no backdrops or environmental trappings. Perhaps, like many contemporary 
peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could 
cause death or injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures 
are rarely depicted in cave art.  Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that 
these people sought to improve their luck at hunting. This theory is suggested by evidence of 
chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears thrown at the drawings. But if improving 
their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to explain why only 
a few show signs of having been speared. Perhaps the paintings were inspired by the need to 
increase the supply of animals. Cave art seems to have reached a peak toward the end of the 
Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing.  
 
5. The word trappings in the passage is closest in meaning to  
o conditions  
o problems  
o influences  
o decorations  
 
6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in 
important ways or leave out essential information.  
o Upper Paleolithic people, like many contemporary peoples, believed that if they drew a 
human image in their cave art, it would cause death or injury.  
o Many contemporary people believe that the drawing of a human image can cause death or 
injury, so they, like upper Paleolithic people, rarely depicted human figures in their cave art.  
o If Upper Paleolithic people, like many contemporary peoples, believed that the drawing of 
a human image could cause death or injury, this belief might explain why human figures are 
rarely depicted in cave art.  
o Although many contemporary peoples believe that the drawing of a human image can cause 
death or injury, researchers cannot explain why Upper Paleolithic people rar ely depicted 
human figures in their cave art.  
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
7. According to paragraph 3, scholars explained chips in the painted figures of 
animals by proposing that  
o Upper Paleolithic artists used marks to record the animals they had seen       
o the paintings were inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals for hunting  
o the artists had removed rough spots on the cave walls  
o Upper Paleolithic people used the paintings to increase their luck at hunting  
 
8. Why does the author menti on that Upper Paleolithic cave art seemed to have 
“reached a peak toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds 
of game were decreasing”?  
o To argue that Upper Paleolithic art creased to include animals when herds of game became 
scarce  
o To provide support for the idea that the aim of the paintings was to increase the supply of 
animals for hunting  
o To emphasize the continued improvement in the quality of cave art throughout the Upper 
Paleolithic period  
o To show the direct connection between the decrease in herds of game and the end of the 
Upper Paleolithic period  
 
Paragraph 4:  The particular symbolic significance of the cave paintings in southwestern 
France is more explicitly revealed, perhaps, by the results of a study conducted by researchers 
Patricia Rice and Ann Paterson. The data they present suggest that the animals portrayed in 
the cave paintings were mostly the ones that the painters preferred for meat and for materials 
such as hides. For example, wild cattle (bovines) and hor ses are portrayed more often than 
we would expect by chance, probably because they were larger and heavier (meatier) than 
other animals in the environment. In addition, the paintings mostly portray animals that the 
painters may have feared the most because of their size, speed, natural weapons such as tusks 
and horns, and the unpredictability of their behavior. That is, mammoths, bovines, and horses 
are portrayed more often than deer and reindeer. Thus, the paintings are consistent with the 
idea that the art is related to the importance of hunting in the economy of Upper Paleolithic 
people. Consistent with this idea, according to the investigators, is the fact that the art of the 
cultural period that followed the Upper Paleolithic also seems to reflect how people got their 
food. But in that period, when getting food no longer depended on hunting large game animals 
(because they were becoming extinct), the art ceased to focus on portrayals of animals.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
 
9. According to paragraph 4, scholars believe that wi ld cattle, horses, and 
mammoths are the animals most frequently portrayed in cave paintings for all of 
the following reasons EXCEPT:  
o These animals were difficult to hunt because of their unpredictable behavior.  
o People preferred these animals for their meat and for their skins.  
o The painters admired the beauty of these large animals.       
o People feared these animals because of their size and speed.  
 
10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following may best represent the 
attitude of hunters toward deer and reindeer in the Upper Paleolithic period?  
o Hunters did not fear deer and reindeers as much as they did large game animals such as 
horses and mammoths.  
o Hunters were not interested in hunting deer and reindeer because of their size and speed.  
o Hunters preferred the meat and hides of deer and reindeer to those of other animals.  
o Hunters avoided deer and reindeer because of their natural weapons, such as horns.  
 
11. According to paragraph 4, what change is evident in the art of the period 
following the Upper Paleolithic?  
o This new art starts to depict small animals rather than large ones.  
o This new art ceases to reflect the ways in which people obtained their food.  
o This new art no longer consists mostly of representations of animals.  
o This new art begins to show the importance of hunting to the economy.  
 
Paragraph 5: Upper Paleolithic art was not confined to cave paintings. Many shafts of spears 
and similar objects were decorated with figures of animals. The anthropologist Alexander 
Marshack has an interesting interpretation of some of the engravings made during the Up per 
Paleolithic. He believes that as far back as 30 ,000 B.C., hunters may have used a system of 
notation, engraved on bone and stone, to mark phases of the Moon. If this is true, it would 
mean that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought a nd were consciously 
aware of their environment. In addition to other artworks, figurines representing the human 
female in exaggerated form have also been found at Upper Paleolithic sites. It has been 
suggested that these figurines were an ideal type or an expression of a desire for fertility.  
      
12. According to paragraph 5, which of the following has been used as evidence 
to suggest that Upper Paleolithic people were capable of complex thought and 
conscious awareness of their environment? 
o They engraved animal figures on the shafts of spears and other objects.  
o They may have used engraved signs to record the phases of the Moon.  
 
29 
 
o Their figurines represented the human female in exaggerated form.  
o They may have used figurines to portray an ideal type or to express a desire for fertility. 
 
Paragraph 3: The subjects of the paintings are mostly animals. The paintings rest on bare 
walls, with no backdrops or environmental trappings. Perhaps, like many contemporary 
peoples, Upper Paleolithic men and women believed that the drawing of a human image could 
cause death of injury, and if that were indeed their belief, it might explain why human figures 
are rarely depicted in cave art. Another explanation for the focus on animals might be that 
these people sought to improve their luck at hunting.  ■ This theory is suggested by evidence 
of chips in the painted figures, perhaps made by spears th rown at the drawings. ■ But if 
improving their hunting luck was the chief motivation for the paintings, it is difficult to 
explain why only a few show signs of having been speared. ■ Perhaps the paintings were 
inspired by the need to increase the supply of animals. Cave art seems to have reached a peak 
toward the end of the Upper Paleolithic period, when the herds of game were decreasing. ■  
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage.  
 
Therefore, if the paintings were connected with hunting, some other explanation is 
needed.  
 
Where would the sentence best fit?  
 
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices 
that explain the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not 
belong in the summary beca use they express ideas that are not presented in the 
passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.  
 
Upper Paleolithic cave paintings in Western Europe are among humanity ’s earliest 
artistic efforts.  
●  
●  
●  
<Answer choices> 
1. Researchers have proposed several different explanations for the fact that animals were the 
most common subjects in the cave paintings.       
2. The art of the cultural period that followed the U pper Paleolithic ceased to portray large 
game animals and focused instead on the kinds of animals that people of that period preferred 
 
30 
 
to hunt.  
3. Some researchers believe that the paintings found in France provide more explicit evidence 
of their symbolic significance than those found in Spain, southern Africa, and Australia. 
4. The cave paintings focus on portraying animals without also depicting the natural 
environments in which these animals are typically found.  
5. Some researchers have argued that the  cave paintings mostly portrayed large animals that 
provided Upper Paleolithic people with meat and materials.  
6. Besides cave paintings, Upper Paleolithic people produced several other kinds of artwork, 
one of which has been thought to provide evidence of complex thought.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 
Children and Advertising 
 
Young children are trusting of commercial advertisements in the media, and 
advertisers have sometimes been accused of taking advantage of this trusting outlook. The 
Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising in the United 
Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness'—creating a wrong impression either 
intentionally or unintentionally —in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques that 
make it difficult for children to judge the true size, action, performance, or construction of a 
toy. 
 
General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered on the 
use of exaggeration. Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are largely 
ill-equipped to recognize such techniques and that often exaggeration is used at th e expense 
of product information. Claims such as "the best' or “better than" can be subjective and 
misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning. They represent the advertiser's 
opinions about the qualities of their products or brand and, as a consequence, are difficult to 
verify. Advertisers sometimes offset or counterbalance an exaggerated claim with a 
disclaimer—a qualification or condition on the claim. For example, the claim that breakfast 
cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally 
balanced breakfast.' However, research has shown that children often have difficulty 
understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase 'when part of a nutritionally 
balanced breakfast" to mean that the  cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced 
breakfast. The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between 
the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimers used in many toy 
advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both 
audio and visual formats. Nevertheless, disclaimers are mainly presented in audio format 
only. 
 
Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could possibly 
mislead a young  audience. Child-oriented advertisements are more likely to include magic 
and fantasy than advertisements aimed at adults. In a content analysis of Canadian television, 
the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for character toys featur ed 
fantasy play. Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy brings their ideas to 
life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is unreal. 
Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract child ren's attention, particularly 
in food advertising. Advertisements for breakfast cereals have, for many years, been found to 
be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including such content. 
Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish between 
fantasy and reality in advertising. Certainly, rational appeals in advertising aimed at children 
are limited, as most advertisements use emotional and indirect appeals to psychological states 
 
32 
 
or associations. 
 
The use of celebrities such as singers and movie stars is common in advertising. The 
intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the 
advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind. In 
children's advertising, the celebrities are often animated figures from popular cartoons. In the 
recent past, the role of celebrities in advertising to children has often been conflated with the 
concept of host selling. Host selling involves blending advertisements with regular 
programming in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other. Host selling 
occurs, for example, when a children's show about a cartoon lion contains an ad in which the 
same lion promotes a breakfast cereal. The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice 
of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program 
material. It was also found that older children responded more positively to products in host 
selling advertisements. 
 
Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve host 
selling, the evidence is mixed. Researcher Charles Atkin found that children believe that the 
characters used to advertise breakfast cereals are knowle dgeable about cereals, and children 
accept such characters as credible sources of nutritional information. This finding was even 
more marked for heavy viewers of television. In addition, children feel validated in their 
choice of a product when a celebrity endorses that product. A study of children in Hong Kong, 
however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively affect the 
children’s perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in question. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 
 
Paragraph 1: Young children are trusting of commercial advertisements in the media, and 
advertisers have sometimes been accused of taking advantage of this trusting outlook. The 
Independent Television Commission, regulator of television advertising i n the United 
Kingdom, has criticized advertisers for "misleadingness” —creating a wrong impression 
either intentionally or unintentionally —in an effort to control advertisers' use of techniques 
that make it difficult for children to judge the true size, act ion, performance, or construction 
of a toy. 
 
1. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 1 as being a difficult 
judgment for children to make about advertised toys? 
○How big the toys are  
○How much the toys cost 
○What the toys can do  
○How the toys are made  
 
Paragraph 2: General concern about misleading tactics that advertisers employ is centered 
on the use of exaggeration. Consumer protection groups and parents believe that children are 
largely ill-equipped to recognize such technique s and that often exaggeration is used at the 
expense of product information. Claims such as " the best” or “better than" can be subjective 
and misleading; even adults may be unsure as to their meaning. They represent the advertiser's 
opinions about the qualities of their products or brand and, as a consequence, are difficult to 
verify. Advertisers sometimes offset or counterbalance an exaggerated claim with a 
disclaimer—a qualification or condition on the claim. For example, the claim that breakfast 
cereal has a health benefit may be accompanied by the disclaimer "when part of a nutritionally 
balanced breakfast. ” However, research has shown that children often have difficulty 
understanding disclaimers: children may interpret the phrase “when part of a nutriti onally 
balanced breakfast" to mean that the cereal is required as a necessary part of a balanced 
breakfast. The author George Comstock suggested that less than a quarter of children between 
the ages of six and eight years old understood standard disclaimer s used in many toy 
advertisements and that disclaimers are more readily comprehended when presented in both 
audio and visual formats. Nevertheless, disclaimers are mainly presented in audio format 
only. 
 
2. The word verify in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○establish the truth of 
○approve of  
○understand  
○criticize 
 
 
 
34 
 
3. In paragraph 2, what is one reason that claims such as “ the best” or “ better 
than” can be misleading? 
○They represent the opinions of adults, which are often different from those of children.  
○They generally involve comparisons among only a small group of products.  
○They reflect the attitudes of consumer protection groups rather than those of actual 
consumers.  
○They reflect the advertiser's viewpoint about the product.  
 
4. Cereal advertisements that include the statement “when part of a nutritionally 
balanced breakfast" are trying to suggest that 
○the cereal is a desirable part of a healthful, balanced breakfast 
○the cereal contains equal amounts of all nutrients  
○cereal is a healthier breakfast than other foods are  
○the cereal is the most nutritious part of the breakfast meal  
 
5. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are true of disclaimers made in 
advertisements EXCEPT: 
○They are qualifications or conditions put on a claim.  
○They may be used to balance exaggerations.  
○They are usually presented in both audio and visual formats.  
○They are often difficult for children to understand.  
 
Paragraph 3:  Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could 
possibly mislead a young audience. Child-oriented advertisements are more likely to include 
magic and f antasy than advertisements aimed at adults. In a content analysis of Canadian 
television, the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for character toys 
featured fantasy play. Children have strong imaginations and the use of fantasy bring s their 
ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that what they are viewing is 
unreal. Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract children's attention, 
particularly in food advertising. Advertisements for breakfast  cereals have, for many years, 
been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost nine out of ten including 
such content. Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very young children can distinguish 
between fantasy and reality in advertising. Certainly, rational appeals in advertising aimed at 
children are limited, as most advertisements use emotional and indirect appeals to 
psychological states or associations. 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
6. The word adept in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○responsible 
○skillful 
○patient 
○curious 
 
7. Paragraph 3 indicates that there is uncertainty about which of the following 
issues involving children and fantasy in advertising? 
○Whether children can tell if what they are seeing in an advertisement is real or fantasy  
○Whether children can differentiate fantasy techniques from other techniques used in 
advertising  
○Whether children realize how commonly fantasy techniques are used in advertising aimed 
at them  
○Whether children are attracted to advertisements that lack fantasy   
 
8.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the 
highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in  
important ways or leave out essential information. 
○Rational appeals in advertising are certainly limited by children's emotional immaturity and 
the indirect nature of their associations.  
○Indirect appeals to children's psychological states or associations can limit the effectiveness 
of rational appeals in advertising.  
○Rational appeals play a much smaller role in advertisements for children than emotional 
appeals and psychological associations do.  
○Rational appeals in advertising aimed at children shou ld certainly be limited until the 
children are emotionally and psychologically ready.  
 
Paragraph 4: The use of celebrities such as singers and movie stars is common in advertising. 
The intention is for the positively perceived attributes of the celebrity to be transferred to the 
advertised product and for the two to become automatically linked in the audience's mind. In 
children's advertising, the celebrities are often animated figures from popular cartoons. In the 
recent past, the role of celebrities in advertising to children has often been conflated with the 
concept of host selling. Host selling involves blending advertisements with regular 
programming in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other. Host selling 
occurs, for example, when a children's show about a cartoon lion contains an ad in which the 
same lion promotes a breakfast cereal. The psychologist Dale Kunkel showed that the practice 
of host selling reduced children's ability to distinguish between advertising and program 
material. It was also found that older children responded more positively to products in host 
selling advertisements. 
 
36 
 
9. The word attributes in the passage is closest in meaning to 
○evaluations 
○attitudes 
○actions 
○characteristics 
 
10. In paragraph 4, why does the author mention a show about a cartoon lion in 
which an advertisement appears featuring the same lion character? 
○To help explain wh at is meant by the term "host selling” and why it can be misleading to 
children  
○To explain why the role of celebrities in advertising aimed at children has often been 
confused with host selling  
○To compare the effectiveness of using animated figures wit h the effectiveness of using 
celebrities in advertisements aimed at children  
○To indicate how Kunkel first became interested in studying the effects of host selling on 
children  
 
Paragraph 5: Regarding the appearance of celebrities in advertisements that do not involve 
host selling, the evidence is mixed. Researcher Charles Atkin found that children believe that 
the characters used to advertise breakfast cereals are knowledgeable about cereals , and 
children accept such characters as credible sources of nutritional information. This finding 
was even more marked for heavy viewers of television. In addition, children feel validated in 
their choice of a product when a celebrity endorses that product. A study of children in Hong 
Kong, however, found that the presence of celebrities in advertisements could negatively 
affect the children’s perceptions of a product if the children did not like the celebrity in 
question. 
  
11. The word credible in the passage is closest in meaning to  
○helpful 
○believable 
○valuable 
○familiar 
 
12. According to paragraph 5, what did a study of children in Hong Kong show 
about the use of celebrities in advertisements aimed at children? 
○ It is most effective with children who watch a lot of television.  
○ It has little effect if the celebrities are not familiar to most children.  
○ It is more effective in marketing cereals and food products than in marketing other kinds of 
products.  
 
37 
 
○ It can have a negative effect if the celebrities are not popular with children  
 
Paragraph 3: ■ Fantasy is one of the more common techniques in advertising that could 
possibly mislead a young audience. ■ Child -oriented advertisements are more likely to 
include magic and fantasy than advertisements aimed at adults. ■In a content analysis of 
Canadian television, the author Stephen Kline observed that nearly all commercials for 
character toys featured fantasy play. ■Children have strong imaginations and the use of 
fantasy brings their ideas to life, but children may not be adept enough to realize that  what 
they are viewing is unreal. Fantasy situations and settings are frequently used to attract 
children's attention, particularly in food advertising. Advertisements for breakfast cereals 
have, for many years, been found to be especially fond of fantasy techniques, with almost 
nine out of ten including such content. Generally, there is uncertainty as to whether very 
young children can distinguish between fantasy and reality in advertising. Certainly, rational 
appeals in advertising aimed at children are l imited, as most advertisements use emotional 
and indirect appeals to psychological states or associations. 
 
13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could 
be added to the passage. 
 
Another aspect of advertising that may especially influence children is fantasy. 
 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage. 
 
14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is 
provided below. Complete the summary by selec ting the THREE answer that 
express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong 
in the summary because they express ideas that not presented in the passage or 
are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.  
 
Advertisements can be misleading to children when the advertisements use audio and 
visual formats that are especially appealing to children. 
●  
●  
●  
<Answer Choices> 
○Children may not be able to interpret exaggerated claims made by advertisers or understand 
the disclaimers used to offset claims.  
○Although the use of celebrities is not necessarily effective in advertisements aimed at 
children, there is evidence that host selling can positively affect their views of a product.  
○Studies show that misleading tactics are used most often in commercials for breakfast 
 
38 
 
cereals, with toy commercials using such tactics only slightly less frequently.  
○The use of fantasy is espec ially common in advertisements for children, but children may 
not be able to distinguish fantasy from reality.  
○Very young children are particularly influenced by host selling, while slightly older children 
are more readily misled by seemingly rational claims such as 'the best."  
○Advertisements can be misleading to children when the advertisements use audio and visual 
formats that are especially appealing to children.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
수고하셨습니다. 
 
